 

 4  i”
- Lo, -™

2020

ANNUAL PERFORMANCE REPORT


 

Annual Performance Report
2020

Ministry of Labour


Contents

 

Chapter One
Institutional Profile / Executive Summary
Ministry of Labour
1.1 Introduction
1.2 Vision, Mission and Objectives
1.3 Key Functions
1.4 Institutions and Divisions under the
Ministry
1.5 Organizational Chart

Chapter Two
Progress and Future Outlook
2.1 Progress of the Ministry
2.2 Progress of the institutions under
the Ministry
2.2.1 Department of Labour
2.2.2 National Institute of Labour
Studies (NILS)
2.2.3 National Institute of
Occupational Safety and
Health (NIOSH)
2.2.4 Office of the Commissioner
for Workmen's
Compensation
2.2.5 National Productivity
Secretariat
2.3 Achievements, Challenges and Goals

Chapter Three
Overall Financial Performance for the
Year ended 31% December 2020
3.1 Statement of Financial Performance
for the period ended 31%! December
2020
3.2 Statement of Financial Position
3.3 Statement of Cash Flows

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

 

NNN =

Sow

13
13

36

39

42

45
50

59

60
61
62

 

3.4 Notes to the Financial Statements

3.5 Performance of the Revenue Collection

3.6 Performance of the Utilization of
Allocation

3.7 In terms of F.R. 208 grant of
allocations for expenditure to this
Ministry as an
agent of the other Ministries /
Departments

3.8 Performance of the Reporting of
Non-Financial Assets

3.9 Auditor General's Report

Chapter Four
Performance Indicators
4.1 Performance Indicators of the
Ministry (based on the action plan)

Chapter Five
Performance of the achieving Sustainable
Development Goals (SDG)
5.1 Identified respective Sustainable
Development Goals
5.2 Achievements and challenges of
SDGs

Chapter Six
Human Resource Profile
6.1 Cadre Management
6.2 Effect of shortage or excess in
human resources on the
performance of the Ministry
6.3 Human Resources Development

Chapter Seven
Compliance Report
Compliance Report

63
63

63

64

64

65

79

80

81

82

84

85
86

87
87

93
94


ASAE] CE

Table 2-1
Table 2-2
Table 2-3

Table 2- 4

Table 2-5

Table 2-6

Table 2-7

Table 2-8

Table 2-9

Table 2-10

Table 2-11

Table 2-12

Progress of the decent work programme 8
Financial progress of the Ministry ~~ 11
Activities conducted by the Social
Dialogue Division - 2020               15
Particulars of the complaints

received during year 2020 amidst

COVID - 19 pandemic                  16
Data reported on strikes in 2020
comparatively to 2019                   17
Activities pertaining to the

standardization of workers’ rights ~~ 19
Activities conducted for inspecting
occupational health measures in
workplaces - 2020                         19
Awareness workshops conducted

for improving occupational safety and
health - 2020                               21
Enforcement of existing laws

relating to the employment of

women, young persons and

children - 2020                            22
Receipt of applications and

forwarding Decision Letters to

the Central Bank - 2020                25
Progress of monitoring approved
provident funds - 2020                   26
Performance of the court

proceedings - 2020                       27

Figure 2-13 Cases filed by all District Offices

Table 2-14
Table 2-15

Table 2-16

Table 2-17

and the cases concluded - 2020      27
Progress of the construction works ~~ 28
Overall financial progress of the

year 2020                     29
Training programmes organized

and conducted by the

Department for the officers 2020 ~~ 32
Allocation of provisions to

officers of the Department for

trainings conducted by external

training institutes - 2020                  32

 

Table 2-18

Table 2-19

Table 2-20

Table 2-21

Table 2-22

Table 2-23

Table 2-24

Table 2-25

Table 2-26

Table 3-1
Table 3-2

Table 3-3

Table 3-4

Table 4-1
Table 5-1

Table 6-1
Table 6- 2

Table 6-3

Table 7-1

 

Overall expenditure for capacity
development activities as at

31.12.2020                                32
Services provided by the

Department through its

website - 2020                            33
Physical and financial progress

of the institute (NIOSH)                39
Number of environmental

surveys conducted (NIOSH)           40
Progress of the payment of
compensation                            43

Financial progress of the Office

of the Commissioner for

Workmen's Compensation              44
Progress of the productivity

promotion programmes for

Pirivena management                  47
Targets prescribed for the

Productivity Development Officers

at divisional level                          49
Maximum limits of existed and
proposed compensation                23

Performance of the Revenue Collection 63
Performance of the Utilization of
Allocation                                63
Grant of allocations for expenditure to
this Ministry as an agent of the other

Ministries / Departments                 64
Performance of the Reporting of
Non-Financial Assets                        64

Performance indicators of the Ministry 80
Sustainable Development Goals

relevant to the Ministry                82
Staff details of the Ministry              86
Participation of officers in local

training courses                         87
Participation of officers in foreign
training courses                         90
Compliance Report                     94

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


Figure 2-1
Figure 2-2

Figure 2-3

Figure 2-4
Figure 2-5
Figure 2-6

Figure 2-7

Progress of the internal audit

activities                                  12
Timely inspections - progress of

year 2020 comparatively to 2019 15
Resolving complaints on the denial

of statutory entitlements and settling

industrial disputes in 2020            16
Registration of collective

agreements - 2020                      17
Labour inspections conducted

during the previous five years         30
Quality of labour inspections

- 2018, 2019 & 2020           30

Time taken to pay the benefits of
Employees’ Provident Fund From

Diagrams

Diagram 1-1 Organizational chart of the Ministry 4

   

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

 

Figure 2-8
Figure 2-9
Figure 2-10

Figure 2-11
Figure 2-12

Figure 2-13

Figure 2-14

 

2017 to 2020                               31
Income from training activities

(NILS)                                 36
Gross income from training
programmes (NILS)                   37
Income from examination

activities (NILS)                        37
Number of fatal accidents reported 43

Number of non-fatal accidents

reported                                     43
Progress of the recurrent

expenditure of National Productivity
Secretariat                                 45
Progress of the capital expenses of
National Productivity Secretariat ~~ 45


Image 2-1

Image 2-2
Image 2-3

Image 2-4

Image 2-5
Image 2-6

Image 2-7

At National Labour Advisory

Council meeting                      13
Appointing Arbitrators for

expediting arbitration process       18
Handing over safety handbooks to
Hon. Minister                      20

Signing MOU with Sri Lanka Girl
Guides Association for eliminating
child labour                          23
Obtaining assistance of Girl

Guides for eliminating child labour 35
Organising activities of the

research symposium                38
Donating Personal Protection
Equipment to the Base Hospital,
Homagama                          41

 

Image 2-8

Image 2-9

Image 2-10

Image 2-11

Image 3-1

Image 5-1

 

Discussion with the officials of the

affiliated institutions
Awarding scholarships for the

42

children of employees victimized

due to accidents

44

At Privena Productivity Promotion

Programme

46

Conducting programmes for the

Office of the Prime

Minister

Initial discussions for creating
skilled foreign labour

force

49

64

Meeting with the representatives

of the World Health
Organisation

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

84

   


"Action is taken to amend the Employees’ Provident Fund to make the
registration compulsory of an employee at the Department of Labour
within 30 days from the date of recruitment and to introduce a SMS

service for informing instantly members of Employees’ Provident Fund
regarding their monthly contributions. Legal provisions have already
been submitted in order to ensure the occupational safety at worksites
along with labour rights in consistent with international policies and
standards conducting constant discussions with International Labour
(0) (VET J74:11 [0] A

ne of the main objectives of the Ministry of

Labouris the protection of rights and ensuring
occupational safety of the workforce, the life
blood of the country. The responsibility for taking
necessary measures in order to enhance the
productivity and welfare and further to safeguard
the occupational rights of the workforce, whilst
identifying the tasks under the field for ensuring
of safety of employees in private sector and
establishment of competent labour force for
overseas market as the special priorities in "Vistas
of Prosperity and Splendour’, the policy manifesto
introduced by H.E. Gotabhaya Rajapaksha,
President, has been entrusted to the Ministry
of Labour and Department of Labour, National
Institute of Labour Studies, National Institute of
Occupational Safety and Health, Office of the
Commissioner for Workmen's Compensation
and National Productivity Secretariat, which
are the institutes affiliated to the Ministry.
Accordingly, many programmes have already
been implemented during year 2020 based on
the 'Vistas of Prosperity and Splendour’, the
policy manifesto and further a large number of
programmes are to be implemented during year
2021.

Necessary measures have already been taken
in order to amend the outdated Laws, Acts and

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

 

Ordinances to suit to the present requirements
and to face the future challenges, whilst securing
the rights of the labour force of the country.
Further, it gives me pleasure to mention that
action has been taken to amend these Laws
and Acts ensuring benefits to all the parties
removing all the complexities and maintaining the
uniformity so as to create an investment friendly
environment in the country and further action has
been taken not to cut down the benefits but to
enhance them for the benefit of the labour force.
In the face of the COVID - 19 pandemic, the
business community of private sector and
industrialists have to struggle with the challenge
for maintaining their enterprises without any
hindrance and under this circumstance special
agreements and processes have been introduced
exclusively for the protection of employments of
the workforce and to implement proposals for
concessions with the view to maintain industrial
peace.

Amidst many challenges, the Ministry gained a
significant achievement by providing minimum
daily wage of Rs. 1,000/-, through the Wages
Boards to the workers in tea and rubber industry
which was proposed by the previous budget. In
the meantime, action has been taken to increase
the national minimum wage up to Rs. 12,500/-


Message of the Hon. Minister

NTHEURTIT EER EN [RA
Minister of Labour

 

and further, it has planned to take action for the
increase of minimum wage summoning every
Wages Board within the next three months. After
coming to power, the new Government has taken
action to increase the compensation granted
to the persons, who suffer physical damages
or become disabled or demise whilst serving,
from Rs. 5.5 lakhs up to 2 million and further to
increase the maximum limit of the compensation
formula applied at the termination of employment
from Rs. 1.25 million to 2.5 million.

Further, arrangements have been made to get two
bills (Special Provisions) passed by the Parliament
for vesting the power in Labour Tribunals to
hear the cases filed against the employers,
who neglect the payment of contributions to
Employees’ Provident Fund, with a view to get
prompt decisions and also to vest concurrent
judicial power in the Commissioner for Workmen's
Compensation and Labour Tribunals for settling
disputes arisen on workmen's compensations.
Further, necessary legal provisions have been
introduced to amend the Industrial Dispute Act
so as to allow the representatives of workmen,
who are non-Attorneys At Law, to appear for the
cases filed at Labour Tribunals and to introduce
laws in order to issue disciplinary orders without
delay conducting disciplinary inquiries within six

months. In the meantime, approval of the Cabinet
of Ministers has already been granted to legalize
the minimum age limit for retirement as 60 years
in respect of employees in private sector.

Further, action is taken to amend the Employees’
Provident Fund to make the registration
compulsory of an employee at the Department of
Labour within 30 days from the date of recruitment
and to introduce a SMS service for informing
instantly members of Employees’ Provident
Fund regarding their monthly contributions. Legal
provisions have already been submitted in order
to ensure the occupational safety at worksites
along with labour rights in consistent with
international policies and standards conducting
constant discussions with International Labour
Organization. Legal provisions have also been
introduced already to avoid the employment of
children less than 16 years and in the meantime
action has been taken to issue orders to the
effect that no child under 18 years of age can be
employed in hazardous occupations.

In addition to the above, arrangements have
been made to amend the Employees’ Provident
Fund facilitating to enter into social security
agreements with foreign countries and further to
pass a new bill on health, safety and welfare of

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


employees promptly conducting discussions with
relevant parties. Laws are now being formulated
recognizing the convention 190 of International
Labour Organization - Violence and Harassment
in the world of work with a view to establish an
environment so as to ensure the protection and
the dignity specially of women in worksites. We
have extended our gratitude to the workers of
nearly one million working abroad, who make
tremendous contribution to enhance the national
economy of Sri Lanka and strengthen the foreign
exchange reserves. Positive measures are to be

introduced to ensure their protection, safety and
strengthen their future. Our Ministry has taken
initiatives to implement a system with laws, rules
and regulations in order to save the workers
working abroad from the traps and frauds of
brokers and certain Agencies and to formulate
a stable pension scheme and insurance scheme
for their benefit.

122 employees, who were serving in Lanka
Tractors (Limited), have lost their employment
due to closer the institute and they have faced a

 


number of economic and social issues as a result
of not paying their compensation for more than 18
years. Under such circumstance, the Ministry was
able to grant them the compensation amounted
nearly to Rs 22 million coordinating with relevant
institutions and it is a significant victory achieved
by the Ministry.

| take this opportunity to extend my heartfelt
gratitude to the whole staff of the Ministry
including Mr. M P D U K Mapa Pathirana, the

Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, who shoulder
the responsibility to implement future plans for
the achievement of these goals and objectives
and further to the Heads and the staff of all
other institutions under the Ministry for their
commitment to make this journey a success.

Nimal Siripala De Silva
Attorney At Law (M.P.)
Minister of Labour

 


"Implementation of a duty roaster system or any other suitable
system in order to assure that every employee receives work
Lo) Welge]oLolq i] ECR ERR IE RY CLR (ON EVCRC) AL EU IER

community of private sector and industrialists to maintain their
enterprises without interruption in the face of COVID - 19 pandemic
and assuring the workers their employments and payment of either
50% of the full salary paid for the last month or Rs. 14,500/- whichever
is higher, due to loss of work."

t gives me a great pleasure to present this

report, which provides a wide panorama on
the performance achieved during year 2020 by
the Ministry of Labour and the Departments and
Institutions under the Ministry and plans to be
implemented in future with the objective to create
a satisfactory & productive labour force.

Accordingly, our Ministry has formulated future
programmes in accordance with the tasks and
special priorities under the field of ‘establishment
of employees security in private sector and
creation of a skilled foreign employment force’
in consistent with the policy manifesto ‘Vistas
of Prosperity and Splendour’, international
conventions, to which Sri Lanka has extended
agreement and Sustainable Development Goals.

Ensuring the rights of working people of the
country along with their job security is one
of the main responsibilities entrusted to our
Ministry. With a view to achieve these objectives,
necessary measures have been taken to amend
relevant Acts and Ordinances to cater to the
present needs ensuring the rights of the working
people so as to face the present as well as future
challenges. Further, initiatives have already been
made to amend Laws, Acts and Ordinances in
order to assure benefits to all parties by way of

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

 

simplifying the labour Laws, Acts and Ordinances
removing all existing complexities with the aim
to establish an environment which encourages
investments in to the country.

Accordingly, following measures are among the
measures taken to ensure the job security of
working people.

* Ensuring the right of children for
education by way of raising the age of
employment from 14 years to 16 years
of age. Thereby, laws are amended to
prevent the employment of children
under 16 years of age

* Increasing the maximum limit of
compensation determined for the
purpose of terminating the service of
employees from Rs. 1.25 million to 2.5
million

* Increasing the national minimum wage
from Rs. 10,000/- to 12,500/-

* Amending the Industrial Dispute Act to
expedite the issuance of disciplinary
orders by conducting disciplinary
inquiries against employees in private


Message of the Secretary

MPDUK Mapa Pathirana

sector, who are interdicted or subject to
disciplinary actions, within six months

Introducing laws in order to place
a security in filing writ applications,
appeals and motions against the
decisions and grants issued under
Termination of Employment of
Workmen (Special Provisions) Act,
Industrial Disputes Act

Introducing a new Act (Special
Provisions) to vest concurrent powers
in Magistrate Courts and Labour
Tribunals to expedite the hearing
of cases on labour issues and to
recover the arrears of contributions to
Employees’ Provident Fund amounted
to Rs. 12 billion, which has to be paid to
employees under the provisions of the
Employees’ Provident Fund Act

Increasing the compensation of Rs.
550,000 to Rs. 2 million paid to the
persons, who are injured physically,
become disabled or demised in the
course of their employment

Taking necessary measures in order to

Secretary

 

extend the minimum age of retirement
of the employees in private sector up to
60 years

Taking action to ensure a minimum daily
wage of Rs. 1,000/- to estate workers

Implementation of a duty roaster system
or any other suitable system in order to
assure that every employee receives
work on proportionate basis with a view
to pave way for the business community
of private sector and industrialists
to maintain their enterprises without
interruption in the face of COVID - 19
pandemic and assuring the workers
their employments and payment of
either 50% of the full salary paid for the
last month or Rs. 14,500/- whichever is
higher, due to loss of work and taking
action to maintain industrial peace by
way of submitting relief proposals for the
payment of contributions to Employees’
Provident Fund and Employees’ Trust
Fund

Introducing a new Act on Occupational
Safety, Health and Welfare of
Employees prescribing standards

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


   

recognized internationally in order to
induce the establishment of safe and
health working environment

Introducing a SMS service for informing
the members of Employees’ Provident
Fund instantly regarding the contributions
credited monthly to their accounts

Imposing regulations on hazardous
employments so as to restrict the
employment of persons less than 18
years of age

Amending the Employees’ Provident
Fund Act facilitating to enter into social

security agreements with foreign
countries
Amending Industrial Dispute Act

enabling the representatives, who are
not Attorneys At Law, to appear for the
cases filed at Labour Tribunals under
Industrial Dispute Act

Amending Employees’ Provident Fund
for the purpose of introducing legal
provisions for registering an employee
at the Department of Labour within 30
days from the date of recruitment

Vesting a concurrent judicial power
in the Commissioner for Workmen
Compensation and Labour Tribunals in
order to expedite the settlement process
applied on disputes connecting to the
payment of workmen's compensation

Taking action to pay a compensation of
nearly Rs. 22 million to 122 employees
of Lanka Tractors Limited, which has
not been paid for 18 years

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

In addition to the above, action has been taken
under ‘Decent Work’ Concept to implement
various programmes with a view to establish
decent working environment and sound
interrelationships between employer and
employee, ensuring the rights of workers with
the participation of both employee and employer
and conducting properly the meetings of
National Labour Advisory Council, maintaining
proper dialogue constantly with all parties,
implementing programmes for the elimination of
child labour and ensuring the rights of working
women. Further, initial measures have been
made for the automation of all services delivered
by Department of Labour including the provision
of benefits of Employees’ Provident Fund whilst
providing all the services under one roof. In
the meantime, programmes and projects for
ensuring welfare, rights, health and education
of labour force are implemented by all the
institutions affiliated to this Ministry. Further,
the institutions in both public as well as private
sectors are empowered through the productivity
concept.

| take this opportunity to extend the gratitude
of our Ministry to Hon. Nimal Siripala De Silva,
Minister of Labour for his leadership, guidance
and instructions for the performance of above
tasks and further, | extend my sincere thanks
to all the officers of the staff of the Ministry and
Heads of Institutions under the Ministry and staff
for their tremendous commitment to achieve the
performance of the Ministry of Labour of year
2020.

MP D U K Mapa Pathirana
Secretary


 


 


 

CHAPTER ONE

Institutional Profile / Executive Summary

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


Ministry of Labour

 

1.1 Introduction

Protection of the labour community, ensuring the
welfare and promotion of industrial peace and
collaboration whilst maintaining the relations with
international level on laws, charters as well as
standards of labour relations fall under the scope
of the Ministry of Labour. As per the Gazette
Extraordinary No. 2196/27 dated 06.10.2020 the
main roles of the Ministry are ensuring occupational
safety of the employees in private sector based on
the national policies, provision of the required policy
directions in order to create of a highly competent
labour force aiming at the foreign labour market,
formulation of policies in relation to the subject
of labour in consistent with the relevant Laws,
Acts and Ordinances, and the implementation of
projects under national budget, investments of the
state and national development programme in line
with the "Vistas of Prosperity and Splendour, the
policy manifesto of the government, as well as the
national policies implemented by the government.
In the meantime, the Ministry takes necessary
measures for the achievement of the vision of the
Ministry by formulating, implementing, evaluating
the tasks assigned to the institutions affiliated to
the Ministry and related policies, programmes and
projects whilst carrying out necessary follow up
actions. Accordingly, the vision and the mission of
the Ministry are as follows.

1.2 Vision, Mission and Objectives

Vision
A satisfied, productive labour force

Mission
Contribute towards the

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

SOcCio-economic

   

development through the promotion of industrial
peace, social security, workers’ rights and
productivity

Objectives of the Ministry
e Strengthening employer —- employee
relationships   through   tripartite
empowerment

» Ensuring service standards and workers’
rights in compliance with international
standards

* Eliminating child labour

* Empowering and protecting employed
women and encouraging gender equality

» Enhancing flexibility of labour legislation
and procedures

* Formulating appropriate methodologies
for ensuring social security of the working
community

All institutions under the purview of the Ministry
focus on the following thrust areas with a view to
establish sound working environment.

* Industrial peace and harmony

» Enforcing labour standards and rules &
regulations

 Protecting women workers and eliminating
child labour

* Occupational safety and health

 Social security

e Education, training, research and
development relating to the field of labour

1.3 Key Functions

1. Formulation, implementation, evaluation of


the policies and programmes in relation to
the Departments and Statutory Institutions
under the Ministry of Labour and carrying
out required follow up actions

2. Formulation and implementation of
policies with regard to international labour
standards, administration and welfare of
the employees

3. Liaison with International Labour
Organization and International Social
Security Organizations

4. Administration ofthe Employees’ Provident
Fund, Private Provident Fund and Private
Retirement Schemes

5. Formulation of methodologies for labour
relations and settlemnt of industrial
disputes and regulating the efficiency of
its implementation

6. Measures in relation to the formulation
and regulation of laws and regulations
connected to labour relations

7. Registration of Trade Unions, introduction
and implementation of positives measures
required for harnessing activities of all
trede unions in public as well as private
sector for the development of the country

8. Supervision of the institutions and activities
relevant to all other subjects, which are
entrusted to the institutions such as
Department of Labour, National Institute
of Labour Studies, National Institute of
Occupational Saftey and Health, Office
of the Commisssioner for Workmen's
Compensation and National Productivity
Secretariat

Major legislations implemented

1. Workmen's Compensation Ordinance No.
19 of 1934
2. Trade Unions Ordinance No. 14 of 1935

3. Maternity Benefits Ordinance No. 32 of

1939

Wages Board Ordinance No. 27 of 1941

Factories Ordinance No. 45 of 1942

Industrial Disputes Act No. 43 of 1950

Shop and Office Employees (Regulation

of Employment and Wages) Act No. 14 of

1954

8. Employment of Women, Young Persons
and Children Act No. 47 of 1956

9. Employees’ Provident Fund Act No. 15 of
1958

10. Termination of Employment (Special
Provisions) Act No. 45 of 1971

11. Employees’ Councils Act No. 32 of 1979

12. Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983

No oA

13. National Institute of Occupational Safety
and Health Act No. 38 of 2009

14. National Institute of Labour Studies Act
No. 12 of 2010

15. National Minimum Wage of Workers Act
No. 03 of 2016

16.Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers
Act No. 04 of 2016

1.4 Institutions and Divisions under

the Ministry

1.4.1 Divisions under the Ministry

i. Administration and Establishments
Division

ii. Planning, Research and Development
Division

iii. Labour and Foreign Relations Division

iv. Finance Division

v. Internal Audit Division

1.4.2 Institutions under the Ministry

i. Department of Labour

ii. National Institute of Labour Studies

ji. National Institute of Occupational Safety
and Health

iv. Office of the Commissioner for Workmen's
Compensation

v. National Productivity Secretariat

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


1.5 Organizational Chart

 

 

Secretary

 

 

 

 

 

Co. Secretary to the Secretary

 

 

 

 

 

Additional Secretary (Admin.)                                                     Additional Secretary (Dev.)                                                Chief Finance Officer

:                     ;                                                   Senior Asst. Sec.                                    Director                                     Chief Accountant                              i                i
Senior Asst. Sec. (Admin.)                                                (Foreign Relations)                        (Planning, Research & Dev.)                                                                        Chief Internal Auditor

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Labour

Annual Performance Report 2020

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Legal             Asst. Secretary                    Asst. Secretary                                      Assistant Secretary                   Assistant Director               Assistant Director
Officer                 (Admin.)                         (Establishment)                                       (Foreign Relations)                        (Planning)                  (Research & Development)

Administrative Officer

 

 

 

Accountant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Translator                       IT Officer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Media Officer | | Development Officer         Development Officer       Development Assistant   Budget Assistant   Development Officer  Development Officer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

L Chief Management Assit.                               Chief Management Assit.                                                   Chief Management

Still Cameraman          Video Cameraman                          IT Assistant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

|
Management Assistant          Management Assistant                                   Management Assistant

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Stenogra-                          Drivers
pher

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Camera

Assistant                                                                                                      KKS                                                KKS                                                            KKS

 

 

 

 

Diagram 1 - 1 Organizational chart of the Ministry


 

CHAPTER TWO

Progress and Future Outlook

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


(Je CRITE To MATT (T= 00] [oo]

 

2.1 Progress of the Ministry

2.1.1 Administrative and Establishments
Activities

General   administration,   management,
maintenance, training of the Ministry and
coordination among the Ministry and the
institutions under the Ministry and human
resources management and other related duties
are carried out under this division. Accordingly,
following tasks are performed.

|. Maintenance of the personal files of all the
public officers attached to the Ministry as
well as the assisting staff of Hon. Minister
and performance of all other related
establishment activities and maintenance
of the particulars of the staff with necessary
updating

Il. Establishment activities, which are to
be performed by the Ministry in respect
of the officers serving attached in the
Departments and Statutory Institutions
under the Ministry of Labour

Ill. Duties in association with the engagement
of Labour Officers in the duties of Foreign
Diplomatic Missions

IV. Preparation of Cabinet Memoranda and
taking actions as per decisions of the
Cabinet of Ministers and ensuring the
contribution for the establishment of
industrial collaboration by way of updating
existing labour law and imposing new laws

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

 

V. Provision of answers to the questions
forwarded by the Parliament and matters
referred from Consultative Committees
and Public Petition Committee and
directing the complaints made by the
General Public, which are directly
made and referred from the President's
Secretariat and the office of the Prime
Minister

The Duties Performed

|. During the period from January to
December 2020, this Ministry has
submitted 32 cabinet memoranda to the
Cabinet of Ministers and approval has
been granted for 19 out of the above
memoranda.

e Submission of recommendations No.
205 and 206 of International Labour
Organization and 190 convention to
the Parliament

* Implementation of a SMS alert
service enabling the members of the
Employees’ Provident Fund to get
the information of monthly remittance
of their contribution

e Making provisions for the statutory
claims to be paid to the employees of
Lanka Tractors Limited due to closer
of the institution

» Establishment of a social security
fund for the benefit of the Sri Lankans
working abroad


e Dealing with mater pertaining to the
payment of salaries of the employees
in private sector in the face of the
crisis arisen due to COVID - 19
pandemic

* Amendment of Labour Laws for the
determination of the minimum age
for employing persons as 16 years

Recommendations have been made to the
Director General, Department of National
Budget for the payment of relief allowance
paid once for all 31 July Strikers, who
completed 65 years, under the provision
of relief for July Strikers

32 officers of the Ministry have been
directed to the training courses conducted
by various institutions during the year
under review. Officers have been directed
to the courses such as file management,
promotion of productivity, information
technology, Establishments Code and
development of attitude of Drivers and
Office Employees

IV. 321 complaints have been received from

V.

General Public during the period under
review and all these complaints have been
referred to relevant divisions for taking
further actions

« President's Secretariat     - 67
+ Office of the Prime Minister - 68
« Other             - 186

Total              - 321

13 requests have been made under
Right to Information Act and accordingly
relevant information has been given for
12 requests out of the above. One request
has been rejected

VI. When the Ministry has been established

at 6" and 7" floors of “Mehevara Piyesa”
building, a productivity promotion
programme has been launched by National

Productivity Secretariat with a view to
enhance the productivity and efficiency of
the service and to make the environment
of the institution more attractive

2.1.2 Planning, Research and Development

Activities

Main functions of this Division are the preparation
and implementation of the plans, which are
required to implement development programmes
of the Ministry and institutions under the Ministry
adhering to the accurate targets, and reviewing
the progress and carrying out necessary follow
up actions.

The Duties Performed

IV.

Preparation of annual action plan
which contains the development goals
determined by the Ministry and institutions
under the Ministry and referring them to
relevant parties. Preparation of annual
action plan under the zero based budget
development programme and supervision
through the evaluation of progress on the
attempts made to achieve the target and
making necessary encouragements

. Ensuring coordination with President's

Secretariat, Ministry of Finance,
Department of Project Management &
Monitoring and Department of National
Planning and submitting monthly &
quarterly progress reports

Preparation of the Annual Performance

Report, which shows the progress
achieved by the Ministry
Dealing with all the activities connected

to the publishing of Sri Lanka Labour
Gazette issued biannually. Accordingly,
first volume of the serial no. 71 of the Sri
Lanka Labour Gazzette has been issued
covering the period under review. Further,
second volume of the serial no. 71 is now

being edited

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


V. A symposium organized annually by the
Ministry based onthe various timely themes
in the field of labour and accordingly,
a journal is published containing the
research papers in the field. Accordingly,
research papers have been called during
year 2020 on the theme 'COVID -19:
Labour Issues and Responses’ and they
are to be published as a journal after
evaluating them by a panel of scholars.
However, it has been decided to publish
only the journal without conducting the
symposium taking in to consideration the
prevailing situation in the country

VI. Mobile Services

The mobile service “A helping hand from
us for your occupation” was conducted
covering the areas of Homagama,
Padukka, Seethawaka, and Maharagama
at President's Collage, Homagama on
29" February 2020 and 01% March 2020
targeting the labour community and
employers. During this mobile service
various services such as settling issues
arisen on the Employees’ Provident
Fund and Employees’ Trust Fund,
matters pertaining to vocational training
requirements, introduction of employment
opportunities in private sector and self
employments, promoting productivity
concept, identifying foreign employment
opportunities and blood donation camp
were delivered for the benefit of the labour
community

VIl.Decent work programme

In order to bring Sri Lanka towards the
path for development, it is required
to promote employment opportunities
with decent work environment. It is
expected under this process to promote
equivalent opportunities for both male
and female workers for having productive
employments whilst ensuring the rights
of employees, and establishing fairness
and justice, occupational and social
security and human dignity. Decent work
programme is implemented under the
framework of four pillars

e (Creation and promotion of
employment opportunities and
national productivity

* Rights at the work place

 Social security

 Social dialogue

In addition to these four main pillars, all the
fields are coordinated with the implementation of
programmes covering following fields of subjects.

* Promotion of productivity
* Ensuring gender equality

Therefore, various programmes were conducted
allocating Rs. 3.5 million to following institutions
in order to launch programmes and projects
under decent work programme and the progress
of the decent work programme as at 31.12.2020
is as follows

 

Table 2-1 Progress of the decent work programme

Expenditure Percentage of the

Institution                      Net allocation (Rs.)                  (Rs.) expenditure (%)
Department of Labour                                        986,285.00            986,285.00                       100%
National Institute of Labour Studies                     208,100.00           208,100.00                     100%
Ministry of Labour                                        2,305,615.00         2,305,615.00                     100%
Grand Total                                             3,500,000.00        3,500,000.00                    100%

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


2.1.3 Labour and Foreign Relations

The responsibilities for protecting domestic
labour rights in accordance with the obligations
undertaken by Sri Lanka as a member country
of the International Labour Organization and
other internationally recognized conventions and
recommendations and applying them to settle
issues in the field of labour are performed by this
Ministry.

Ensuring that Sri Lanka has fulfilled its obligations
and responsibilities in respect of the field of
labour to the International Labour Organization
and other multilateral agencies, formulating
labour policies, creating national level social
dialogues and obtaining international support
for the development of human resources are the
other functions of the Division.

The Duties Performed

|. Serving as the facilitator of the National
Labour Advisory Council, with tripartite
representation. Following actions were
taken during year 2020 conducting 08
meetings

* Increasing the compensation granted
at the death of an employee under
Workmen's Compensation Ordinance

e Providing opportunites to Appear
the representatives of trade unions
at Labour Tribunals on behalf of their
members

* Issues pertaining the week of five
working days

e Taking action to amend the Industrial
Disputes Act in order to expedite the
process for the settlement of labour
disputes

e Conducting discussions on the
difficulties faced by the private sector
due to COVID - 19 pandemic

II. With the COVID - 19 pandemic, a
Tripartite Task Force, which is chaired by
Hon. Minister, was established as a sub

committee of the National Labour Advisory
Council, which is the main mechanism for
social diglogue. The responsibility of the
task force is to take precautionary actions
with a view to minimize the affect caused
to the employees as well as the institutions
in the face of COVID - 19 pandemic. The
committee conducted meetings constantly
even at the curfew times and this
arrangement has paved way to establish
sound understanding among stakeholders

Accordingly, 20 committee meetings
were conducted up to December. This
Committee has tremendously assisted
to take precautions before rising certain
issues to grave crisis and also to build
confidence among various stakeholders.
Further, following concurrences were
made at the meetings of the Tasks Force
in respect of paying salaries to employees,
to whom jobs could not be given due to
COVID - 19 pandemic situation.

+ Bringing both employers and employees
under one umbrella to make agreements
to avoid the loss of job opportunities
of employees at business institutions
affected by COVID - 19 pandemic

* Inducing employers to engage their
employees monthly on a duty roaster
enabling them to have opportunities
for work proportionately at such times
where the full staff cannot be called for
duties due to health guidelines

* Obtaining the agreement of the employers
to pay 50% from the salary they paid for
the last month or Rs. 14,500.00 whichever
is higher, from May to September 2020 for
employees retained at home without work
and up to December for the employees
in businesses in the field of tourism and
businesses in other fields, which cannot
run still in the face of COVID - 19, subject
to the prior approval of the Commissioner
General of Labour

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

 


VI.

VII.

   

Conducting the meetings of Tripartite
Committee, which is a special committee for
conducting discussions on the trends and
requirements for the amendment of laws
and policies relevant to the field of labour
and organization of all other related events.
For this purpose, action is now being taken
to prepare the ground for the introduction
of an act with the inclusion of new service
conditions with a view to remove the
anomalies observed in acts and ordinances,
which are in force relevant to the terms and
conditions of employees, and further, to
introduce flexible service conditions to cater
the present requirements of the country

Preparation of the reports, which should be
sent under Article 22 of the International
Labour Organization. Preparation of
reports for 4 conventions for year 2020 and
preparation of the report which should be
sent under Article 19

Making arrangements for directing the
officers attached to other institutions under
the Ministry and Department of Labour
for foreign scholarships, workshops and
training programmes. Accordingly, 12
officers have been sent to foreign training
programmes and workshops during the
period from January to March 2020.
However, no foreign training has been
conducted during the other period due to
COVID - 19 pandemic

Preparation of the report for settling issues
arisen in the process for obtaining EU GSP+
concession and conducting meetings of
the tripartite committee appointed for the
supervision of GSP+ duty concession,
whilst organizing all the connected matters
and participating in the meetings

Dealing with the matters pertaining to the
memoranda of understanding and all the
related programmes, which are to be made
in due course in respect of the education
on social security in relation to the field of
labour of Sri Lanka and foreign countries

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

VIII.

XI.

XII.

XIII.

XIV.

Conducting meetings to continue Decent
Work Country Programme with new approach
with the collaboration of International
Labour Organization and preparing required
arrangements in this regard

Coordination of all the meetings of National
Steering Committee on elimination of
child labour and matters connected to the
same. During the period, two meetings
have been held and accordingly action was
taken to appoint a Technical Committee for
making recommendations and providing
instructions to National Steering Committee
on elimination of child labour

Submission of reports to the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and other Ministries on the new
tendencies in relation to the field of labour

Organization of quarterly review meetings with
Department of Labour, Central Bank of Sri
Lanka and the members of the trade unions,
which represent the employees of estate sector,
regarding the arrears of Employees’ Provident
Fund, Employees’ Trust Fund and gratuities,
which are to be paid to the employees of estate
companies taken over by the Government

Coordination of all matters pertaining to the
projects and workshops, which implement
technical collaboration of International
Labour Organization

Submission of the answers, which should be sent
annually in response to the questions on labour
statistics, to the International Labour Organization

Submission of the letters of requests for
visa in respect of the officers of International
Labour Organization, who arrive in Sri
Lanka to extend technical assistance

2.1.4 Financial Activities

Measures have been taken to manage financial
resources allocated to the Ministry by the annual

budget 2020,

effectively, productively and

economically in consistent with public policies.


 

Table 2-2 Financial progress of the Ministry

Net

Balance Expenditure

Programme Project Category  Provision ee 000) Provision Percentage
(Rs. ,000)          (Rs. ,000)              (%)
Recurrent    26,794   22,145   4,649     83
1     1   Capital      2,900   2,866    34     99
Total      29,694   25,011   4,683     84
Recurrent                     96,070              91,654               4,416                        95
1     2   Capital      6,700   6,234    466     93
Total      102,770   97,888   4,882     95
Recurrent    469,686  436,895   32,791     93
1                      7            Capital                         11,700               5,997              5,703                      51
Total                              481,386             442,892              34,494                         92
Recurrent     5,500   5,500     -    100
2                    3(2)          Capital                            1,600                1,600                       -                     100
Total       7,100   7,100     -    100
Recurrent     3,500   3,500     -    100
2    3(3)  Capital       600    600     -    100
Total       4,100   4,100     -    100
Recurrent                   41,750             39,101               2,649                      94
2     4   Capital       700    375    325     54
Total      42,450   39,476   2,974     93
Recurrent                     33,850              31,217               2,633                        92
2     5   Capital       900    411    489     46
Total      34,750   31,628   3,122     91
Recurrent    677,150  630,012   47,138     93
Grand Total           Capital                 25.100          18,084          7.016                72
Total      702,250  648,096   54,154     92
2.1.5 Internal Audit Activities                     Main functions
The responsibility for conducting internal  Examining the success of internal
audit activities and special investigations,     investigations and the administration

depending on the necessity of the Ministry of
Labour and Department of Labour, Office of the
Commissioner of Workmen's Compensation,
National Institute of Labour Studies, National
Institute on Occupational Sefety & Health and
National Productivety Secretariat

system applied in the institutions
Il. Examining as to whether the provisions

of the Establishments Code, Financial
Regulations of the Government and

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


VI.

VII.

the circulars, which have been already
issued and purported to be issued by the
Ministry in charge of the subject of public
administration and the General Treasury
and other supplementary instructions

Managing internal audit functions
productively and in compliance with
audit principles, vision and mission of the
Ministry of Labour, and Departments and
other institutions under the purview of the
Ministry

Evaluating the established systems of
control in order to ensure that the functions
are carried out in compliance with policies,
plans, procedures, laws and regulations,
which can make considerable influence to
the functions of the Ministry

Evaluating the efficiency and productivity in
the utilization of the resources belonging to
the Ministry

Evaluating and verifying the measures,
which have been taken to ensure the
protection and maintenance of assets

Evaluating the activities or programmes in
order to assure whether the financial and

XI.

XII.

XII.

XIV.

physical progress of the Ministry have
been achieved in line with the established
objectives of the Ministry

Providing necessary guidelines for the
establishment of internal control processes
and risk management processes, which are
appropriate to each division of the institution

Communicating the results of the audit
at the end of the auditing process and
introducing rectification processes for
necessary rectifications

Preparation and implementation of the
annual audit plan

Taking necessary measures for the
submission of reports on due date, which
are to be submitted to the Department of
Management Audit

Taking necessary actions for calling and
conducting the meetings of the Audit and
Management Committee

Performing the special assignments
entrusted by the authority depending on the
situation and reporting

The Duties Performed

 

Audit & Management Committee Meetings
01.01.2020 to 31.12.2020

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

8
7
6
5
No. of Audit & Management         4
Meetings and Audit Quarries           3
2
1
0                                                                               ;
National                 Potion        Office of the
i.                                   .             Naional        Institute of           Lo
Ministry of | Department of | Institute               .               :       Commissioner
Productivity | Occupational                !
Labour              Labour            of Labour                      .                                 for Workmen's
              Secretariat          Safety &
Studies                                        Compensation
Helth
Mm Number of Audit Management
Meetings conducted                                      3                 3                 3                 3                 3                 3
No. of audit quaries & reports                       6                7               2                0                2                0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 2-1 Progress of the internal audit activities

   

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour


2.2 Progress of the institutions under
the Ministry

2.2.1 Department of Labour

The Department of Labour is the institution in
public sector, which is responsible for upholding
the occupational rights of workers in the semi
government and private sectors and establishing
social protection. Since this is a subject falls
within the ambit of the central government, the
Department maintains an Island - wide network of
labour offices for the enforcement and promotion
of necessary legislations.

Indian Immigrant Labour Ordinance No. 1 of
1923 was introduced with the intention to ensure
the welfare of Indian Labourers, who were
brought to Ceylon by British for tea and coffee
plantation during the colonization period under
British Rulers. The Department of the Controller
of Indian Immigrant Labourers , which has been
established under the aforesaid Ordinance, can
be shown as the foundation of the Department
of Labour. At present Department of Labour
performs its role for strengthening national
economy by way of maintaining tripartite
relationship firmly among employees, employers
and the Government.

Vision
A country with everlasting industrial peace for an
internationally competitive economy

Mission

To contribute to the socio-economic development
of Sri Lanka through establishment of decent
work environment within secured industrial peace
while protecting labour rights

Objectives
* Consolidating lasting industrial peace
in semi government and private sector
workplaces

* Improving conditions of service of the
employees by establishing a decent
work environment and formulating labour
standards

 Securing social protection of the employee
* Guaranteeing employment security of
women and young persons and eliminating

child labour

* Creating a work environment conducive
for health of workers and free of accidents

 

 

 

SF Br y ik

—

4        y          y         d                                 {
>”                                          =          .                Jy              ES                               \
P                                                /            a       vn      »
=n                               »             ;
[=               [J                               a                               v                      h
Zz                  4                                                             fe                     .
F
X           ”       ~       J          A
Ia                     Jo                                        -

Image 2-1 At National Labour Advisory Council meeting

 

dg


Key functions

* Promotion of dialogue amongst employers
and employees

* Enforcement of labour legislation and
prevention of industrial disputes and
resolving disputes that have arisen
through the promotion of social dialogue

e Conducting institutional inspections
(labour inspections) and upholding the
statutory rights of workers by regularly
updating the knowledge required by
officers of the Department

* Establishing industrial peace by expanding
the knowledge and understanding of
labour laws of both the employers and
employees

* Formulation and implementation of labour
standards compatible with changes in the
national economic structure in line with
international labour standards

» Ensuring that benefits are duly granted to
workers through the sound administration
of the EPF and the administration of the
approved private provident funds and
pension allowances with similar efficiency

» Constructive enforcement of all labour
laws including those applicable to women,
young persons and children

* (Creating awareness amongst workers that
workplaces are healthy and accident free
and ensuring that workplaces are accident
free and maintain sound health practices

e Collection and analysis of statistics

required for making decisions regard to
above functions

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

e Taking action to give legal effect to
International  Labour ~~ Organization
conventions ratified by Sri Lanka

* Initiating action to eradicate child labour
and hazardous forms of child labour

2.2.1.1 The Duties Performed

i.  Ensuring industrial peace for the
promotion of economic development

Since the vision of the Department is to create
a country with established industrial peace
for an internationally competitive economy,
maintenance of the industrial peace without
interruption is the basic as well as prime task of
the Department.

For this purpose the Department performs
its functions under 04 main streams such as
maintaining the dialogue between employer
and employee, conducting combine labour
inspections, settling complaints received
regarding the denial of statutory rights and labour
disputes, and initiating legal actions with a view to
safeguard the occupational rights of employees.

.  Maintaining the dialogue between
employer and employee

Following tasks were performed during the year
2020 with a view to establish work environment,
which ensures industrial peace between employer
and employee to achieve maximum productivity
and efficiency of private and semi-government
institutions scattered all over the Island.

Organizing and conducting programmes
with a view to educate both employers and
employees on labour laws through awareness
programmes for semi government and private
sector institutions aimed at creating work
friendly environment


 

Table 2-3 Activities conducted by the social Dialogue Division - 2020

S.                                                                                                       Number of
Programme
No.                                                                                                    programmes
Institutional level awareness programmes for both employers and
1                                       -           CL                                                       37
employees conducted by Social Dialogue Division
2 Programmes conducted by Social Dialogue Division at semi- government institutions                   06
3 Conducting inspections at institutions (Routine)                                                            424
4    Programmes for which the services of resource persons have been                               21

provided on the requests of institutions

Action is taken to conduct an Island
wide competition on social dialogue and
collaboration at workplace at small, middle
and large scales so as to represent annually
manufacturing, services, garments and estate
sectors with the intension to understand
the extent in which the social dialogue has
been rooted in institutions. Initiatives were
made to hold this competition for year 2019
and accordingly awarding ceremony was
conducted under the sponsorship of Hon.
Minister on 16.01.2020

Having taken in to consideration the situation
of the country due to the COVID - 19 pandemic
situation it has to restrict programmes, which
have been planned to conduct during year 2020

*  Conductingworkplace (labour) inspections

Main objective of conducting timely inspections
is to examine whether the rules and regulations

imposed for the protection of statutory rights of
workers in the place of work are implemented
properly and take necessary actions to redress
grievances and pave the way for the establishment
of cordial relationships between employers and
employees. To carry out this function, 11 zonal
labour offices, 40 district labour offices, 17 sub
officesand 10 district factory inspection engineer's
offices have been established to cover the entire
Island and the number of Labour Officers serve
under the Department including the divisions of
the head office is 488 as at 31.12.2020. The
total number of labour inspections performed by
labour officers in the year 2020 was 64,708.

Number of the labour inspections conducted in
year 2020 has marked a decrease comparatively
to year 2019. The reason for the decrease is the
suspension of labour inspections totally in certain
months and conducting very limited number of
inspections due to COVID - 19 pandemic.

Timely Inspections - Progress of 2020 comparatively 2019

14000

 

12000

 

10000

 

8000

 

6000

4000

Number

2000

 

Zone

 

 

 

Labour Inspections
Conducted in 2019

Labour Inspections
conducted in 2020

Figure 2-2 Timely inspections - progress of year 2020 comparatively to 2019

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


* Resolving complaints on the denial
of statutory entitlements and settling
industrial disputes

Complaints regarding the violation of statutory
laws and potential breaches in industrial
peace and the possibility of strikes are lodged
with the head office, district offices and sub
offices by employees or trade unions and

offices, regional offices and relevant divisions
of the head office to resolve such complaints.
If their attempts failed, the dispute is referred
to an arbitrator or an industrial court for a
solution on the order of the Minister in charge
of the subject.

Complaints received on the violation of statutory
laws and solutions offered in the year 2020 are

accordingly action is pursued by the district     as follows.

6] TI ETT CR CINE JET To BESET RO RYT ELT We ES ELT (oT A EVER

settling industrial disputes in 2020 comparatively 2019

 

 

 

 

 

 

RL        16,755 16,614
16,000
= Balance as at
14,000                                                01.01.2020
12,000                                                    ,
m Complaints received
10,000                                                                                    during the year
8   8,000                                               m Complaints resolved
3                                                                                             during the year
6,000
-  Balance as at
4,000                                                31.12.2020

2,000

 

 

2019                                                                2020
Year

Figure 2-3 Resolving complaints on the denial of statutory entitlements and settling industrial disputes in 2020 comparatively
2019

It is observed that the number of complaints
received and settled during the year 2020 shows
a lower value due to COVID - 19 pandemic.

Further, particulars of the complaints received
during year 2020 amidst COVID - 19 pandemic
are as follows.

 

Table 2- 4 Particulars of the complaints received during year 2020 amidst

Number of the complaints to which solutions

Complaints received amidst COVID - 19                  :
were given out of the complaints received

pandemic                                                      during the year

Number of the   Number of employees               Number of the   Number of employees

,             \              connected to such         complaints, which         connected to such
complaints received                          .                                                             .

complaints                 were settled                   complaints

2,262                           8,913                           1,044                           4,850

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

 


When situations that could possibly lead to a
strike action are observed, the officials of the
Department of Labour immediately take action to
contain the situation and if a strike takes place

necessary interventions are made to resolve the
dispute. Compared to the year 2019, there is a
slight increase in the number of strikes observed
in the year 2020.

 

Table 2-5 Data reported on strikes in 2020 comparatively to 2019

Year                  Event
[72]
[ =
2
ke
IS
o.
Strikes reported                         8
2019 No of employees participated 1,952
No of man days lost               28,218
Strikes reported                              13
2020 No of employees participated 1,936
No of man days lost                9,375

By entering into collective agreements as a
means of settlement of industrial disputes, a
more permanent solution is offered to both the
employer and the employee and they enable
employees to secure greater privileges than the
rights and privileges conferred through labour

    
  
  
 

M4 —
Number currently
dealing with

Figure 2-4 Registration of collective agreements - 2020

Accommodation supply of and food

=
s £2         E 3
i   5          >  c
EE      : 8
3 5 =      = 5 =
S   S   i=      E ££ I
o   =   =      é Oo   2
1   11   -   -   -   1   21
100 4,701   -   -   - 16 6,769
200 26,403   -   -   - 16 54,837
-   12   -   2   -   1   28
- 4,040   -  64   - 85 6,125
- 12,806   - 324   - 85 22590

legislations. Further, the Department makes
efforts to induce parties for collective agreements
through social dialogues. The total number of
collective agreements, which are in force by
31.12.2020 including 15 collective agreements
registered during year 2020 are 148.

«15
Number registered from
01.01.2020 to 31.12.2020

«35
Number of Agreements With
Shortcomings

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


 

 

 

mage 2-2 Appointing Arbitrators for expediting arbitration process

Disputes which cannot be resolved with the
intervention of labour offices or with the direct
involvement of the Industrial Relations Division
of the Department of Labour are referred to
arbitration or to an industrial court and in the year
2020, there had been 59 references for arbitration
and the number of awards issued was 22.

It is compulsory for every trade union to register
at the Department of Labour. Accordingly, the
number of trade unions, which have been
registered at the Department of Labour are 105
and the total number of trade unions, which are
functioning as at 31.12.2020 is 1,843.

Il. Special Investigations

In addition to the labour investigations carried
out under normal procedure and complaints
made, any party, who is not satisfied with the
investigation conducted on a complaint or the
way of conducting investigation at an institution,
can make a request to the Commissioner General

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

 

of Labour for an investigation again and at such
occasions, an investigation is made depending
on the requirement.

Accordingly, 198 office and site investigations
were conducted during 2020 and the arrears in
the contributions to Employees’ Provident Fund,
which were calculated at investigations, was
Rs. 5,767,050.00 and the value of the statutory
allowances in arrears was. Rs.12,055,291.00.
Further, 19 investigations were conducted during
year 2020 pertaining to the complaints relevant
to semi- government institutions.

lll. Standardization of workmen's rights

Formulating and updating standards on the
salaries, service conditions and environment,
which make effect to the job security and welfare
of the employees in private sector, and giving
legal effect thereto, are among the priorities of the
Department of Labour. Accordingly, the following
activities have been conducted in the year 2020.


LED) CW ARO (RY ge TI ROR CRS EI Elo [P21 (ol Rel AVL CIERTIO IS

IV.

 

NS                                  Programme / Activity                                          . ha

1      No. of Wages Boards representatives appointed due to the expiration of the                      15
official term

2 Granting approval for the requests made for five-day work week                               197

3     Publishing monthly the minimum salaries determined by Wages Board for                  10
employees in cocoa, cardamom, pepper cultivating and processing industry

4 Examining legal validity of collective agreements                                                       36

5    Making clarifications and legal interpretations under the Budgetary Relief               07
Allowance Act No. 04 of 2016

6    Making clarifications and legal interpretations under Wages Board                oa
Ordinance

>    Making clarifications and legal interpretations under Shop and Office                14
Employees Act

8      Granting approval for the requests made for deductions from salaries under                      23
Wages Board Ordinance and Shop and Office Employees Act
Granting approval for requests made to establish fine funds and make

9 expenses from such fund under Wages Board Ordinance and Shop and               02
Office Employees Act
Announcing special holidays and election holidays pertaining to Wages

10     :                                                    01
Boards through notices published in newspapers

11    Uploading soft copies of gazettes, amendments to Acts and regulations              a4
published by the Labour Standards Division in the website of the Department

19     Issuance of clearance certificates to the institutions, which provide security                     29
services, for the renewal of annual licenses

Ensuring a healthy and hazard free work      e Conducting examinations regarding the

environment for employees
Ensuring Occupational health

According to the provisions of the Factories
Ordinance in force, health and occupational
safety of employees is a legal obligation of
the employer and the right to work in a safe
environment is a fundamental right of the worker.

health safety of work places

The Department conducts environmental
quality supervision, biological supervision
and sound tests with a view to find whether
there are possibilities for health issues
| accidents at work places. Accordingly,
activities carried out during year 2020 were
as follows.

 

Table 2-7 Activities conducted for inspecting occupational health measures in workplaces - 2020

S. No.       Programme / Activity                                                       Physical Progress
1         Environmental measurements                                                        178
2            Biological tests                                                                                             1,925
3         Occupational safety and health audits                                                    183

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


Providing knowledge required for the
maintenance of health safety at work
places and conducting awareness
programmes

Programmes are conducted covering both
employers and employees regarding the
health safety of the workplace. Accordingly,
137 such awareness programmes were
conducted during year 2020 by the
Department of Labour.

Issuance of the decisions of Medical Boards
16 decisions were given conducting Medical
Boards for the applicants, who apply for the
contributions of Employees’ Provident Fund
on medical grounds.
Ensuring accident - free work
environment

The danger of physical injuries and even
death exists for workers in factories due to
electricity, heat, air pressure, excessive light
or sound and minimizing such accidents is
one of the primary responsibilities of the
Department of Labour

10 District Factory Inspection Engineers’
Offices have been established covering all

Image 2-3 Handing over safety handbooks to Hon. Minister

or

y

over the country and accordingly, qualified
engineers perform this task by way of
inspecting factories.

Registration of new factories

Whenever new factories are established
or applications are made for registration
of factories, inspections are carried out to
verify whether required standards have
been followed and further instructions are
given to make necessary rectifications,
if necessary. Then registration is done if
required standards and prescriptions have
been followed properly. The total number of
factories, which have been registered at the
Department by the end of 2020, is 31,833.
738 factories, which were registered during
this year, are also included in the above.

Examination of building plans and
certification

When constructions works are carried out
for the buildings of factories, inspections
are made to verify whether they are in
consistent with the Factories Ordinance
and accordingly necessary certifications are
made. Therefore, 106 building plans were
examined and certified during year 2020.

 


 

Conducting factory inspections

All the factories situated within the
respective area are constantly inspected
and accordingly action is taken to provide
necessary instructions identifying in advance
the possible risk situations. Accordingly,
2,130 factories were inspected during year
2020.

Investigations on accidents and
hazardous events

During the year 2020, 71 fatal accidents
and 1,116 non-fatal accidents have been
reported to the Department. By identifying
the reasons for accidents, consequent
to investigations into all such fatal and
serious non-fatal accidents, awareness
were created to prevent recurrence of such
accidents. Further, 70 cases were filed
against employers which accidents have
violated the Factories Ordinance.

S. No.             Relevant Division
01                 Construction
02                  Apparel
03                  Other products
Total

The victims of occupational accidents
and illnesses are directed to the Office
of the Commissioner for Workmen's
Compensation and Shrama Wasana Fund

Actions were taken to grant compensations
to the affected persons and their dependents
referring 237 accidents, which were reported
during year 2020, to the Commissioner for
workmen’s Compensations

In addition to the above, action was pursued
to refer the details of 71 school children of
victims’ families to the Shrama Vasana Fund
to have scholarships offered to them

* Regulation on the inspections of high
risk machines
Actions are taken to get the high risk
machines checked, which are used in
factories including steam boilers, steam
receivers, air receivers, hoists, escalators,
for which inspection reports should
be obtained. Accordingly, 9,034 such
inspections were conducted during year
2020.

e Conducting awareness programmes
Particulars of the workshops conducted
during year 2020, considering the
enhancement of the awareness of
both employee and employer and the
implementation of laws and regulations
in the improvement of occupational safety
and health as a priority work, are as
follows.

 

Table 2-8 Awareness workshops conducted for improving occupational safety and health - 2020
No. of programmes No. of beneficiaries

conducted                   participated
06                              850
09                              600
06                              350
21                                    1,800

e Commemoration of World Safety Day
and National Occupational Safety and
Health Weak

The National Conference held annually by the
Department of Labour to commemorate the
World Safety Day, which falls on 28™ April every
year, could not be held in 2020 due to COVID -
19 pandemic. Under such circumstance, National
Occupational Safety and Health Week could also
not be held but necessary actions were taken
to telecast the documentary under the title ‘Api
Yanne Koi Paare' from 7.00 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
on 20.12.2020 by National Rupavahini for the
promotion of occupational safety and health.

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


Further, action was taken to distribute 1,900
manuals and 19,800 leaflets and posters in due
course for the promotion of occupational safety
and health.

V. Safeguarding the occupational rights
of women and young persons and
eliminating child labour

One of the primary responsibilities of the
Department of Labour is to promote productive
contribution of women’s labour by enforcing
labour laws covering women at workplaces and

recommend necessary amendments to such
laws by reviewing them periodically.

Similarly, eradicating child labour with the
contribution of all stakeholders, enforcing labour
legislation applicable to children under 18 years
of age and recommending amendments to
existing laws to be compatible with prevailing
social issues too are key responsibilities of the
Department of Labour.

* Progress in the enforcement of existing
laws applicable to employed women,

young persons and children

 

Table 2-9 Enforcement of existing laws relating to the employment of women, young persons and children - 2020

S. No. Category         Number                Actions Taken
01 Dally Inspections       193    Daily inspections were suspended due to the COVID - 19
pandemic
:         :                These inspections were conducted only in first and fourth
DZNChinspecions          i      quarters of the year due to COVID - 19 pandemic
Files were closed concluding investigations of 104 complaints.
03   Inspections on child    132    Since the cases on the engagement of child labour were

labour                          revealed in the investigations of 06 complaints, legal action
was initiated in this regard

Investigations
conducted on the
04 complaints received       23
on the service
conditions of women

Files were closed concluding investigations of 06 complaints

Approval for engagement of women on night shifts was
granted in the following manner. 631 approvals from district
offices. 21 approvals from sub offices.

Further, avenues were made for employers to make their
requests to the Department of Labour for night shifts online

Granting approval
05 forengagingwomen 652
on night shifts

Special group

investigations into               290 institutions were inspected and no case on child labour

be    hazardous forms of       2     were reported

child labour

Special group
07 investigations into        124 607 institutions were inspected

woman workers

Awareness programmes were conducted on the laws

Making awareness                 applicable to women and children for the benefit of executive

08                                02 staff of the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources,

orilabouriians           final year students of the Management Faculty of the

University of Colombo

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


e Conducting educational and awareness
programmes

International Women's Day celebration

Concurrently to the International Women's Day
2020, a series of group investigations have been
conducted covering all over the country to verify
whether the women workers in private sector are
given maternity leave and time for breastfeeding.

Celebrating World Day Against Child
Labour

With the objective of avoiding cases of child
labour of Sri Lanka and avoiding the engagement
of children in risk works and further, eliminating
child labour, celebration of World Day Against
Child Labour - 2020 was held at the 10" floor of
the Department of Labour on 12.06.2020 on the
patronage of Hon. Minister.

At this event the official YouTube channel
of the Department of Labour was launched
and the manual of Labour Law, Occupational
Safety and Health has also been presented as
a token. Further, the plaques were awarded to
the district offices of Kalutara, Kandy South and
Anuradhapura and Sub Office at Naula, which
were identified for their prompt intervention in

;    ey        4        1
M      o         ~
Re     d
:            »   Rips Al

Image 2-4 Signing MOU with Sri Lanka Girl Guides Association for eliminating child labour
EE  —,          sn
.   My  s—-  OSS.   ¥    :

 

the effort made to eliminate child labour by way
of taking productive and effective action on the
complaints on child labour in 2018 and 2019.

International Children's Day

A series of group inspections were conducted
related to the fisheries industry in order to
celebrate International Children's Day 2020.
Accordingly, group inspections were conducted
on all multi-day fisheries boats at the harbours,
where they were anchored, within a period of
05 days in October 2020 with the assistance of
National Child Protection Authority, Department
of Probation and Child Care Services and Sri
Lanka Police. During these inspections, leaflets
on the child labour and engagement of children
in risk occupations were distributed among the
officers attached to offices dealing with fisheries
community with a view to make the awareness in
this regard. In the meantime, a poster has also
been distributed to display on notice boards.

e National Steering Committee
Elimination of Child Labour

on

The Government of Sri Lanka has pledged to
eliminate child labour from the country by year
2022. Accordingly, it is essential to strengthen
further collective efforts of all relevant institutions

 


to eliminate child labour and hazardous child
labour from SriLanka. The Steering Committee on
Elimination of Child Labour has been established
to assure that the expected targets are achieved
by all stakeholders through collective efforts.

Accordingly, the meeting of the National Steering
Committee on Elimination of Child Labour was
held at the auditorium of the Department of
Labour at 04" floor with the participation of 26
officers representing relevant institutions on
20.07.2020.

Further, the meeting of the technical committee
was held on 08.12.2020 at the auditorium of the
Department of Labourat04™ floor with participation
of 11 officers from relevant institutions as per the
proposal made at the committee meeting held on
the above day.

e¢ The Department was made its
contribution in the following manner
for the works done by other Ministries,
Departments and Institutions for the
safety of youths, women and children

Labour Officers have participated in 19 meetings
of district / regional children development
committees conducted all over the country even
under the COVID - 19 pandemic and accordingly,
the members of such committees have been
made aware of the child labour. Further, all the
District Secretaries and Divisional Secretaries
have been made aware of the International Year
for the Elimination of Child Labour — 2021 by the
Commissioner General of Labour and a calendar
of 2021 has also been distributed.

e Particulars of other specific programmes

Programme for zero child labour policy in Sri
Lanka - Special inspection series and raids

A series of raids were conducted covering all over
the country with the coordination of all district

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

and sub labour offices with a view to create safe
environment to children by way of minimizing
child labour and hazardous occupations. Under
this arrangement, 14 raids were conducted
during the first quarter of the year and 44 raids
were conducted during the fourth quarter.

eo Progress of the process for amending
the existing legal framework

The employment of any person under the age
of eighteen years in any hazardous occupation
has been banned as per the regulations made
under Section 20(a) of the Amendment Act No.
24 of the Employment of Women, Young Persons
and Children Act No. 47 of 1956. Identifying
occupations that could be detrimental to the
physical and mental health and safety of persons
under the age of eighteen years, the list of
hazardous occupations was amended in the year
2018 and action was taken to obtain approval
of the Cabinet of Ministers for the draft new
“Hazardous Employment Regulations”. Having
submitted the draft to the Legal Draftsman’s
Department, the Department of Labour also took
action to forward its observations thereto.

In terms of the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers
to increase the minimum age a child can be
employed from 14 years to 16 years, drafts of
5 Acts enforced by this Department have been
forwarded to the Legal Draftsman’s Department.

VI. Social Security of the Worker

Employees’ Provident Fund has been established
under Employees’ Provident Fund Act No. 15 of
1958 with a view to make path for the employees
in private and semi-government sectors of Sri
Lanka to enjoy a retirement with sound economic
condition. The administration of this fund is
entrusted to the Department of Labour and its
management is done by the Finance Board of the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka. The value of this fund
as at 31.12.2020 is Rs. 2,540,438 million and the


active membership of the fund is 18.9 million.

e Registration of work
Employment Provident Fund

places in

Allsemi-governmentand private sectorinstitutions
covered by the Employees’ Provident Fund Act
are required to register in the Fund. Accordingly,
the number of institutions registered in the year
2020 was 1,453. The number of institutions that
credited contributions to the Fund in 2020 was
94,171 and the amount of contributions credited
to the Fund was Rs. 125,366.65 million.

e Registration of members in Employees’
Provident Fund

Registering all employees in the Fund by way of
allocating membership numbers, who covered
by Employees’ Provident Fund Act, is the
responsibility of the employer and the Department
supervises the process. Accordingly, the number
of members registered in the Department during

the year 2020 was 167,352 and as of now there
are 2.91 million active accounts in the Central
Bank of Sri Lanka.

First notices and red notices are issued for
employees who fail to make contributions as
stipulated and if such notices are not properly
responded to, action is taken to constitute legal
action and recovers together with the surcharge
and accounts them. During the year 2020, Rs.
5,065 million was recovered by issuing 12,232
first notices and Rs. 3,941 million was recovered
by issuing 9,253 red notices.

eo Payment of the benefits of Employees’
Provident Fund

Facilities have been made to avail this service
from the Head Office of the Department and
35 district offices, 12 sub labour offices and 10
regional labour offices located across the country
and the number of beneficiaries who received
benefits in the year 2020 are mentioned below.

Table 2-10 Receipt of applications and forwarding Decision Letters to the Central Bank - 2020

 

No. of     Number of
Co        Decision
S. No.                            Type of benefit                                    2PPlIcations otters were
received from  sent from Jan
Jan. to Dec. 2020
to Dec. 2020
01   Payment of benefits on retirement having reached the         77.815       78.068
age of retirement
02   Payment of benefits to women members who left         17.309       17.325
service upon marriage
03   Payment of benefits for leaving service upon full          979        992
disability
04 Deceased member benefits                            4137        4,457
05 30% pre retirement benefits                           18,674        19.061
06    Payment of benefits upon permanent settlement in a             1.731           1,733

foreign country

Payment of benefits upon leaving service having
07 received a pensionable post in the public service or             9,517          9,689
the provincial public service

Payment of benefits to members who left the service
08 due to the closure of a public corporation / board,              29           27

retrenchment or conversion into a company
Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


Monitoring approved Provident Funds

117 institutions, which have provident funds
approved under Employees’ Provident Fund,
have been registered as at 31.12.2020 and
the total membership thereof is 186,743. The

functioning of such funds including the crediting
of contributions and payment of benefits is
monitored by the Department of Labour and those
institutions which do not function properly are
brought under the purview of the Commissioner
General of Labour.

 

LE 20 Moo CRIYolRulolal ol glaTo zl o] ol (1ZTo Mol 0) To Ta I {Valo ERAN AY)

Benefits, which have been granted to the
members by Employees’ Provident Fund

Granting housing loans against
the guarantee of the balance of the
account of Employees’ Provident
Fund

With the objective of uplifting the
living standard of members, facilities
have been made available to place
the balance of the EPF as a security
and obtain a housing loan subject to a
ceiling of 75%. Accordingly, approval
was granted for 6,591 housing loan
applications during the year. The
amount for which approval was granted
was Rs. 3.43 billion.

Conducting awareness programmes
on Employees’ Provident Fund

With a view to enhance the knowledge
and awareness of both employees and
employers on Employees’ Provident
Fund and increase the registration in

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

S. No.                                          Matter                                           Value
1         No. of complaints received during year 2020                                                   92
No of complaints resolved and files closed during year 2020                                40
No. of reports on private provident funds monitored by field officers during year
3                                                                                                                    72
2020
4        No. of institutions monitored during year 2020                                               72

EPF, 03 mobile service programmes
were held at Rathgamaa, Poddala and
Homagama.

Further, services provided to the
members have been enhanced by
way of decentralizing the services,
which were so far delivered by the
Head Office, to regional offices

VII. Legal protection for safeguarding the
occupational rights of the worker

The Department of Labour enforces
a host of legislation for the protection
of occupational rights of workmen.
Accordingly, Department of Labour
takes necessary actions to enhance
the relationship between employer and
employee safeguarding the rights of
employer and employee whilst in the
meantime taking legal actions against
those who violate the laws, in order to
assure that the laws to be enforced by the
Department of Labour are implemented all
over the country without any discrimination.


 

Table 2-12 Performance of the court proceedings - 2020

S. No.                         Court
1 Supreme Court
2 Court of Appeal
3 High Courts
District Courts and Commercial High
4
Courts

Number of cases

:            Cased concluded

brought forward in            during vear 2020

year 2020                   oy

114                          8

160                         17

120                         30

216                         21

 

Table 2-13 Cases filed by all District Offices and the cases concluded - 2020

No of cases No of cases

Sabie.                                Ret                                           filed concluded
1 Employees’ Providednt Fund Act                                                        2,642              1,383
2 Gratuity Act                                                                                                   1,047                   722
3 Wages Boards Ordinance                                                           275              121
4 Shop & Office Employees Act                                                         79                12
9 Industrial Disputes Act                                                                                       26                     14
6 Orders of Labour Tribunals                                                                 56                 22
7 Termination of employment of workmen Act                                             0                   1
8 Employment of Women, Young persond & Children...                           9                3
9 Maternity Benefits ordinance                                                              0                  1
10 Budgetary Relief Allowance of workers Act                                         231                 68
11 Approved Private Provident Funds                                                 0                9

VIII. Administration and Human Resources
Management

eo Administration

Measures are taken to direct the staff at the
optimum level in order to achieve the vision and
the mission of the Department of Labour. In view
of the above, the routing works such as fulfillment
of the annual requirement of human resources,
confirmation in the service of employees,
evaluation of the performance, provision of
salary increments, conducting efficiency bar
examinations within due time frames, giving effect
to the scheme of promotions, and disciplinary
activities etc. have been performed efficiently
and productively also during year 2020. In

addition to the routing duties mentioned above,
following tasks have also been performed during
year 2020 in order to make the administration of
the Department more efficient.

Introduction of the Slack Application
for the internal communication of the
Department

Issuance health guidelines to all labour
offices, district factory inspections
engineers’ offices all over the country
and all the divisions of the head office
to avoid the spread of COVID - 19
pandemic

Issuance personal safety equipment

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


for the benefit of the offices of the
Department

Introduction of a work shift system for
the officers to report for duty during the
period of COVID - 19 pandemic

eo Constructions

Necessary measures are taken by the Department
to ensure facilities to the recipients, who visit the
head office and officers of the Department.

Accordingly, infrastructure facilities of the
following offices have been enhanced during
year 2020.

Table 2-14 Progress of the construction works

Financial                  .
Provisions for                                                                       progress as at             RRySich
year (Rs. Mn.)         Planned Projects / activities (Major)               31.42.0020 Progress as at
31.12.2020

(Rs. Mn.)
29          Construction of the Labour Office, Kurunegala                    99                 20%
(Fire Protection System)

-            Construction of the Labour Office, Ambalangoda                        - Phase Il (95%)
53.70        Construction of the Labour Office, Badulla                     53.70 Phase | (52%)
19.53        Construction of the Labour Office, Naula                       19.53 Phase II (100%)
62          Construction of the Labour Office, Hatton                          62 Phase | (62%)

Further, the divisions of the Department have
been shifted to the Mehewara Piyesa, which has
been opened in the previous year, during year
2020.

e Library, Museum and Information Service

A library is maintained by the Department of
Labour with a view to collect subject related
information suit to the requirements identified for
the enhancement of both employer and employee,
expansion of such information depending on the
requirements, enhancement of the knowledge of
the officers of the Department and the General
Public in the field of labour etc.

The library, which consists of more than 180,000
publications in written, printed, audio and visual
media, is the only library maintained in the
Island in relation to the field of labour. The library
maintains services such as lending, reference,
photocopy, collection of newspaper articles,
index, and interlibrary services etc.

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

Accordingly, 30 books, 13 local as well as foreign
magazines were purchased to the library and
2,870 publications were lent to the members
during year 2020. In the meantime, reference
services have also been provided to 507 external
readers.

Further a museum is also maintained by the
Department of Labour in order to preserve the
old acts and ordinances, and other documents
related to the field of labour. The museum
provides a wide picture on the evolution of the
field of labour in Sri Lanka from its past up to
now.

IX. Financial Management

The Department has taken action to utilize the
financial resources, which were allocated to
the Department by the annual budget - 2020,
efficiently and effectively for the fulfillment
relevant objectives in line with the policies of the
Government.


Accordingly, the Department has achieved its
management goals by way of utilizing 94.6%
of recurrent provisions and 93.14% of capital

provisions allocated to the Department from the
annual budget in the year 2020.

 

Table 2-15 Overall financial progress of the year 2020
Allocation (Rs.)
Expenditure (Rs.)
Allocation (Rs.)
Expenditure (Rs.)

Recurrent Expenditure

Capital Expenditure

X. Performing the tasks to achieve goals
under the supervision of the Department
and Human Resources Development

e Performing tasks under the supervision
of the Department to achieve the goals

The role of the Planning, Research, Training
and Publications Division under the frame work
of planning and progress review consists of the
tasks such as preparation of the action plan and
strategic plan of the Department, preparation of
monthly progress reports for the progress review
meetings, and provision of data and reports
requested by the Ministry of Labour and other
Ministries.

The Division performs the tasks such as
supervision of the functions of the Divisions of
the Department and District Offices and making
recommendations for the maintenance progress
by way of analyzing the data collected as its
supervisory role.

Provision of training required by all the staff
of the Department, direction of officers to the
training programmes conducted by external
institutions, provision of required financial
allocations for the degrees and post graduate
degrees and ensuring coordination required for
foreign training programmes falls under the role
of human resources development performed by
this division.

A Statistics Division has also been established
affiliated to this division and it has been
organized to perform the tasks such as obtaining

2,051,750,000
1,941,023,284
1,053,800,000

981,560,511

an understanding on the tendencies of the labour
field of Sri Lanka, making policy decisions,
identifying the necessity for revising the existing
labour laws, acts and ordinances and collecting
and analyzing the data for the forecasts of the
field etc.

e Supervision of District/ Sub Labour
Offices
Action has been taken also in year 2020
to implement the methodology prepared
during year 2018 and 2019. Accordingly,
the progress of district / sub labour offices
has been supervised mainly under following
sectors.

Field investigation and legal activities of
Labour Officers

Process for the recovery of the arrears
of the contributions to Employees’
Provident Fund and activities pertaining
to the payment of benefits of EPF
Activities connecting to the settlement of
complaints on the violation of statutory
rights and industrial disputes received
to the Department in more effective
manner

General administration of the offices

Accordingly, with a view to measure the progress
under above sectors, the goals to be achieved
during year 2020 have been determined and
further instructions have been given to all Deputy
Commissioners of Labour, who are in charge of
the regions, regarding the methods to be followed
in the achievement of those goals. Further, the
responsibility to direct all the district / sub labour

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


offices within the respective area to achieve the
determined goals has been entrusted to the
Deputy Commissioners of Labour. The progress
achieved by the end of year 2020 is as follows.

Officers on due date and supervising the
efficiency in the implementation of the
recommendations made by theses reports,
have been performed and accordingly, the

Field inspections of Labour Officers

The tasks such as planning the field
inspections, obtaining approval for them,
selecting institutions, to which priority should
be given in field inspections and obtaining
approval from Assistant Commissioner of
Labour, categorizing the quality of field
inspections, submitting reports by Labour

progress of them is as follows.

Eventhough a gradual increase is observed in the
number of labour inspections carried out during
the period from year 2016 to 2019, the number of
labour inspections conducted during year 2020
has marked comparatively a lower value due
to suspending totally the labour inspections in
certain months and restricting inspections in the
face of COVID - 19 pandemic in year 2020

(IE: 1 L010] QE o Te ToT ER eel [o [Ve (=Ye We [TTT To Wo I CAA (TV CRIN -RYCE NES

 

100,000

 

87,692

—m

83,333
80,000                                                                                               _

55,126                                 61,073
60,000

40,000

 

 

 

 

 

Number

 

20,000

 

 

0

 

2016               2017               2018               2019                2020

Year                        === NO. of inspections conducted
sm TrENd

Figure 2-5 Labour inspections conducted during the previous five years

However, when the quality of the inspection
reports provided by the Labour Officers are
examined, a significant growth is observed in
the reports of 2020 comparatively to year 2018,

in which the supervision methodology has been
applied. Therefore, the reports A and B with
higher quality have been increased from 36% to
79% as per figure 2-6

Comparative picture of the labour inspections conducted from 2018 to 2020

 

60

 

A Graded reports
50                                                                                                                                 “= with higher

TT                                                            quality
40                                                                                                                                                                        B Graded reports

“= with high quality

30                                      ~~                           __——                                          C Graded
reports
General
20                                                  ~                                                                      (        )
_—                                                                                                   D Graded
10                                                                                                     reports

NL                                                                                        (Low Quality)

2018                                                            2019                                                                 2020

Year

 

 

 

Number

 

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 2-6 Quality of labour inspections — 2018, 2019 & 2020

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


e Process for the recovery of the arrears
of the contributions to Employees’
Provident Fund and activities pertaining
to the payment of benefits of EPF

Action has been taken to identify the reasons for
the delay in sending notifications for the recovery
of the arrears of contributions to Employees’
Provident Fund at the level of each office and
officer obtaining information from the supervision
system of EPF and accordingly, measures have

2020 (Jan. to Dec.)
2019 (Jan. to Dec.)

2018 (Jan. to Dec.)

 

 

 

 

2017 (Jan. to Dec.)

0%             10%          20%          30%

= Withib 1 day        m Within 2-3 days

 

© Within 4-7 days ~~ m Within 8-15 days

been taken to rectify the situation. Further,
instructions have been given to recover the
arrears of contributions examining the reasons
for not sending notifications even after calculation
of arrears.

In the meantime, measures have been taken to
establish a system for the payment of benefits
efficiently by way of identifying and analyzing
monthly the number of files received for the
payment of benefits and the time taken for the task.

 

 

 

 

 

 

50%              60%             70%              80%               90%            100%

m Within 16-30 days       m More than 31 days

Figure 2-7 Time taken to pay the benefits of Employees’ Provident Fund From 2017 to 2020

Accordingly, the percentage of the payment
of benefits has marked a growth from 21% to
47% within 07 days by the end of year 2020
comparatively to year 2017.

e Activities pertaining to petitions

Necessary instructions and recommendations
have been given to identify the methodology
applied for setting complaints received to each
district and sub labour offices and the files of
which the settlement has been delayed.

In the meantime, progress review meetings
have been conducted at the level of regions by
Deputy Commissioners of Labour for reviewing
the progress of all district and sub labour offices.
Further, first progress review meeting of year
2020 of the officers in charge of regional offices
has been conducted applying SLACK programme

under the leadership of the Commissioner
General of Labour. In the meantime, action has
been taken to inform the officers on the future
activities of the Department conducting a meeting
chaired by Hon. Minister.

e¢ Human Resource Development

Capacity development of the officers, along with
the knowledge ofthe officers of Departmentin their
role and their understanding for the intervention
practically, is one of the most essential activity,
which is required to enhance the quality of the
service delivered by the Department.

Therefore, the Department satisfies these
training requirements by way of providing
relevant training with the identification of the
training needs of officers, providing necessary
financial allocations for the courses conducted by

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


external educational institutions, and providing
required financial allocations for foreign training

programmes, whenever they are available, whilst
coordinating the process.

Table 2-16 Training programmes organized and conducted by the Department for the officers - 2020

 

No. of           No. of
S. No.                            Programme                           programmes        officers
conducted participated
Induction training for Development Officers newly recruited
1                                                        02               97
and Management Assistants
2      Training programmes on EPF related activities                           02              68
3      Training programme for Arbitrators                                           01               78
Online workshop conducted under the sponsorship of
4                     Co                                               02               40
International Labour Organization
Total                                                   07              283

 

Table 2-17 Allocation of provisions to officers of the department for trainings conducted by external training institutes - 2020
No of officers to whom provisions

S.No.                          Programme
were granted
1           Post graduate degrees                                                        12
2          Certificate courses and workshops                                     10
Total                                                            22

 

Table 2-18 Overall expenditure for capacity development activities as at 31.12.2020

Expenditure as

Vote            Provision for the Expenditure as at        Balance as at     a percentage of
year 2020 (Rs) 31.12.2020 (Rs) 31.12.2020 (Rs)

provisions

221-01-01-2401                100,000.00              92,725.00               7,956.00                 92.73%
221-02-02-2401                200,000.00            200,000.00                     0.00               100.00%
221-02-03-2401                200,000.00            200,000.00                     0.00               100.00%
221-02-04-2401                500,000.00            492,394.00               7,606.00                 98.48%
Total                  1,000,000.00            985,119.00              15,562.00                98.51%

e Applying information technology for
service delivery

With the objective of ensuring an efficient service
delivery to the recipients, the Department
of Labour has paid thorough attention for
the enhancement of facilities for delivery of
service with the application of information
technology. At present the system for the
supervision of Employees’ Provident Fund has
been connected with the computer system

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

of EPF at Central Bank of Sri Lanka by the
Department. Further, LISA (Labour Inspection
System Application), which has been prepared
for combined labour inspections, collection of
data on the complaints made by employees
and cases filed, making studies on the level of
investigations in the institutions and possible
improvements as well as taking management
decisions are in operation since year 2015.
However, further improvements should be
made to LISA.


Further, SLACK application has also
been introduced in year 2020 for internal
communication of the Department and this
application has facilitated the maintenance of
office functions promptly and minimizing paper
works. In the meantime, it makes facilities for
officers to perform their works more efficient
manner when work from home system is applied.

In addition to the above, the documents
and information required to maintain

service delivery to the recipients, such as
specimens of applications, labour laws and
acts, ordinances, decisions of Wage Boards,
which should be considered by employers,
etc. have been uploaded to the website of
the Department with necessary updating and
therefore, needy people can download such
documents without any obstacle. Accordingly,
the services delivered by the Department
during year 2020 through its website are as
follows.

 

Table 2-19 Services provided by the department through its website - 2020

S.                                                            .
No.            Input                                  Service
01 Website of the

Department         downloading

Uploading information enabling their

Target group

Internal and external clients

+ All the specimens (Including
application for clearance certificate for

security services)

+ Statistical information (Labour
Statistics, Annual Employment
Surveys, Covid — 19 survey report -

May 2020 etc.)

02 Website of the

Department         website

Updating information uploaded in the

Internal and external clients

+ Services delivered by the Divisions of

Head Office

+ Contact details of all the labour offices

03 Website of the
Department    + Media brief

+ Foreign scholarships

+ Calling for bids

+ Training programmes

Publication of information

Internal and external clients

+ Schemes of recruitment
+ Labour acts and ordinances, gazette

notifications

+ Circulars of the Department
+ Order of Seniority of the officers of

Department

+ List of active trade unions

+ List of authorised persons holding
certificate under Factories Ordinance
issued by the Commissioner General

of Labour

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


Providing opportunity to reserve a time for Internal and external clients

Providing opportunity for submitting online Internal and external clients

Applying SLACK application as a means of Officers of the Department

Providing video conference facilities when Officers of the Department

04 Website of the Publication of notifications of the staff
Department          * Information and results of open and
limited competitive examinations
* Notifications on efficiency bar
examinations and applications
«Particulars of transfers
05 Website of the
Department     submitting online the application for active
payments of Employees’ Provident Fund
06 Website of the
Department     the application to obtain approval for
engaging women in night shifts
07 Slack
application     internal communication of the Department
when performing duties under work from
home method due to COVID - 19 pandemic
08 Meet video
conference      work from home method is applied, to
facility          conduct necessary discussions due to
COVID - 19 pandemic (during the year, 15
video conferences were conducted)
09 Official YouTube

e Activities pertaining to statistics

channel of the
Department

18 videos have been uploaded in the Internal and external clients

official YouTube channel of the Department
regarding the labour laws, acts and
ordinances implemented by the Department
of Labour, services provided by Department,
the offices where such services are available,
links for downloading required documents,
instructions for the completion of applications
correctly, institutions established affiliated to
the Ministry of Labour and their role

Officers of the Department

Preparation of Labour Statistics 2018

The tasks such as obtaining a sound
understanding on the tendencies of the labour
field of Sri Lanka, making policy decisions,
identifying the requirement for revising existing
labour laws, acts and ordinances, collecting
and analyzing data pertaining to the field for
the purpose of forecasting are performed by
Statistics Division under the Research, Training
and Publication Division of the Department.

Accordingly, following tasks have been performed
during year 2020

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

(Annual Report) and submission for the
approval of the Publication Committee
of the Department

Completion of the tables prepared for
Labour Statistics - 2019

Collection of information for the survey
of worked hours and labour cost of 2020
by way of posting schedules to relevant
institutions

Provision of data for the “Sri Lanka
Labour Gazatte”


Feeding data to the data base which
has been created for computerizing
particulars of new registrations in
Employees’ Provident Fund

Preparation of salary indicators
monthly for relevant periods as per
Wages Boards and submission of such
information to the Central Bank of Sri
Lanka

Xl. Internal Audit

As all other public sector institutions, the
Department of Labour too has to exercise all
its activities in terms of Financial Regulations,
circulars issued from time to time by the
government and circulars issued by the
Department. The supervision whether such
activities are carried out with gainful resource

utilization and transparency at an optimal level is
under the direct supervision of the Commissioner
General of Labour. Accordingly, the activities
carried out in the year 2020 are as follows

* As per the audit plan prepared in 2020
by the Internal Audit Division in respect
of the year, 07 internal audit inspections
were conducted covering district labour
offices, and the divisions of the head
office

« 12 audit queries issued by the
Government Audit Division after
inspecting various offices of the
Department were answered

« During the year, 03 quarterly Audit &
Management Committee meetings
were held

 

 

ow,

 


2.2.2 National Institute of Labour Studies
(NILS)

2.2.2.1 Introduction

National Institute of Labour Studies was formally
established on 11" September 2007 and was
legally incorporated by the Parliament by the
National Institute of Labour Studies Act, no. 12 of
2010. The institute is governed by a Governing
Council consisting of tripartite stakeholders of
the labour sector. i.e. employers, employees and
public officials. This institute performs the tasks
such as designing and implementing the training
and educational activities, which are required to
create a productive and formidable workforce
with sound knowledge on labour legislation and
regulations.

Vision
Industrial peace and harmony for socioeconomic
development of Sri Lanka

Mission

To facilitate tripartite constituents to develop and
maintain productive labour relations through
education, research and training

2.2.2.2 The Duties Performed
a. Training activities

The National Institute of Labour Studies conducts
diploma courses on Labour Law, Labour
Relations and Human Resources Management
with the intension of expanding the knowledge,
skills and attitudes of the employees. In addition
to the above, it conducts short term courses and
certificate courses in relation to labour studies.

In the meantime, 09 Functional Analysis
Workshops were conducted by the Institute with
the participation of resource persons, who are the
experts in different fields, in order to obtain the
recognition at NVQ level 5 (National Vocational
Qualifications) for the diploma courses on Labour
Law, Labour Relations and Human Resources
Management. Further, the modules of the Diploma
courses on Labour Law, Labour Relations and
Human Resources Management have also been
updated. Arrangements have also been made for
conducting all training programmes online in the
face of the challenge of COVID - 19 pandemic
and this arrangement paved way for the institute
to earn income continuously.

Income pertaining to training activities (Rs.)

 

2,500,000

2,000,000

1,515,000

 

2,176,000

 

&
&            ®                 &                w

Figure 2-8 Income from training activities (NILS)

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

1,742,000
1,500,000
1,430,000
1,000,000                                  94000 912000                                                     821,000
659,000
i 000
55/503                                   386,000
262,000                                                                                                                                                       217,000
»                                                ¢
«                                                                                                     S                                                      &                                         §°

&
oF       &                                oS
cR

Q      §

«


(C1 (ELR [Wo]) CR IGT RET RIC [ETT CIR [10 Clo OA LG CRE (LT CHER)

 

7,000,000

6,054,000
6,000,000

5,000,000
4,000,000

3,000,000

2,122,000
2,000,000

1,088,000
1,000,000 | 659,000                                                       420,000

150,000
il 150 ~-.
0    [|       ——

» oo) »    2

2) NY od

>                                          Q                      2
©                    AD                  ®                    &                       =                    RN                     RN                  f°

753,000

 

 

Figure 2-9 Gross income from training programmes (NILS)

b. Activities pertaining to examinations

Since year 2011 the National Institute of Labour
Studies shoulders the role of performing
examinations for recruitments, efficiency bar
examinations and examinations for evaluation
and promotions depending on the requirements
of corporations affiliated to the Government,
statutory institutions and institutes of private

sector. Accordingly, the Institute has conducted
21 examinations even amidst the situation arisen
due to COVID - 19 pandemic. National Institute
of Labour Studies is dedicated to provide
prompt service delivery to its recipients ensuring
confidentiality. Accordingly, 21 examinations were
conducted during the period from 01.01.2020 to
31.12.2020 and the income earned from this
process is Rs. 3.03 million.

[ado] CR CTE TR (LCT CIE TCT R ORY ETN TH EU ER RETA POR RCH)

 

1,000,000

200000                            816,400
800,000
700,000
600000         524,205
500,000
400,000
300,000
200,000

100,000

 

0

900,650

724,300

65,050

 

February                    July

Figure 2-10 Income from examination activities (NILS)

August                September             November

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

 


c. Research, publications and project
activities

With a view to achieve the objectives of the
National Institute of Labour Studies, a separate
division for research activites has been
established in July 2020.

e Research Symposium

Plans have been made to hold a research
symposium in year 2020 and accordingly,
abstracts of the researches have been called
and complete research reports have been called
from researchers selected after analyzing their
abstracts. Further, arrangements are made to
conduct the symposium online on 15" March
2021 to present the submissions under the
theme "Women at Work" which is the symposium
relevant to year 2020. This phase for submission
has been organized for the researchers of 10
research papers selected for the last time. This
event will be held through ZOOM technology with
the participation of nearly 50 persons. Therefore,

Image 2-6 Organising activities of the research symposium

—           r—

plans are now being prepared to publish these
research papers in the form of a book and E-
book.

eo News Bulletin

This new bulletin is published with a view to
promote the business activities of the institute. It
is expected to make the public, semi government
and private sectors aware of the future
programmes of the institute. Therefore, action is
being taken to publish this news bulletin in the
website of the institute as two e- publications per
year.

Research report to be prepared in association
with the Action Learning Project of the students,
who have completed their diploma courses in
year 2020. For this purpose, the Action Learning
Projects of the students, who have secured the
highest marks, have been selected. Writing of
research papers in relation to the above is now
in process. It is expected to publish selected
articles in the website of the institute.

 


2.2.3 National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health (NIOSH)

2.2.3.1 Introduction

The National Institute of Occupational Safety and
Health (NIOSH) was established as an institute
affiliated to the Ministry of Labour and Labour
Relations by the National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health Act No. 38 of 2009. The institute
is committed for the prevention of occupational
accidents and occupational diseases through
sound health and safety measures and ensuring
a decent work environment for every worker
through adherence to correct safety measures
and methods and the institute provides education
and training for any employer of employee willing
to gain benefits from such training.

Vision
Occupational Safety, Health & Welfare for all

Mission

To empower tripartite partners through
education, trainings, research, and other relevant
interventions for preventing and controlling all
forms of work - related hazards to ensure safety,
health and welfare at work places

Programs and activities of National Institute of
Occupational Safety and Health

« Diploma courses on Occupational
Safety and Health

« Certificate courses on Occupational
Safety and Health

« Higher Certificate Course on
Occupational Safety and Health of
Plantation Sector

« Programme for training of Boiler
Operators

+ Work study programme on industries

 Training nurses in the industrial sector

* Occupational safety and health for
hospital staff

* Occupational safety and health for
office staff

« Occupational safety and health in
laboratories

+ Safe use of chemical substances

« Occupational safety and health for food
handlers

 Training programon stress management

2.2.3.2 The Duties Performed

a. Main programmes conducted up to 31.12.2020 and physical and financial progress of those

programmes

 

Table 2-20 Physical and financial progress of the institute (NIOSH)

S.                                                                                                 Number of \\ mberof Financial
N                               Course                               courses Lot       progress
0.                                                                 conducted Participants      (Rs. Mn.)
01    National Diploma Course on Occupational Safety and          02             105          10.43
Health
02    National Certificate Course on Occupational Safety and          01               65           3.02
Health
03   06 days workshop for the constructions field - For the          01              62           0.93
employees of Access Engineering Institute
04 Confine Space- one day programme                                 01                15            0.07
05 Safe Handling Hazard Materials - one day programme          01               15           0.06
06 Basic Course on Occupational Safety and Health *                       01                  25                  -
07 Route Cause Analysis - one day programme                        01                26             0.13

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


*

- A course was conducted selecting 25
students all over the country, who have
passed in G.C.E. O/L examination, free of
charge with the collaboration of Holcim Ltd
and Access Engineering Institute.

Even though it has planned to conduct following
programmes during the year 2020, permission
of the health authorities could not be obtained to
conduct them due to COVID - 19 pandemic.

« One day awareness workshop on
occupational safety and health for
apparel industry

 One day internal workshop on
occupational safety and health

« One day workshop on ISO 14001
standards

« One day workshop on safety for
supervisors

« One day workshop on the usage of

chemicals

« Two days workshop on the field of
electricity safety

«Awareness    programmes    on
occupational safety - For media

personnel, students and trade unions
« Conducting a course on occupational
safety for TVAC institute

Measurements and reports on work environment
are issued by National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health. Surveying the quality of air,
measuring the concentration of gases, surveying
the level of dust of factories, assessing sound
and noise levels and monitoring heat levels are
carried out under this process. Number of the
environmental surveys, which were conducted
during year 2020, are as follows.

 

Table 2-21 Number of environmental surveys conducted (NIOSH)

Serial No.                 Environmental Surveys                    Number of surveys
1                        Sound                                                        1,991
2                        Light                                                         2,160
3                           Heat levels                                                        1,458
4                        Dust                                                          1,219
5                         Air (Emission)                                                   270

The institute has earned Rs. 12.76 million during
year 2020 through these activities and 103,850
employees in 189 institutions have gained
benefits accordingly.

b. Programme for the small scale
industrialists in order to enhance
occupational safety

This programme has been commenced in October
2020 as a special programme with the financial
grants of International Labour Organization.
Under this programme, action has been taken
to ensure the safety of entrepreneurs in small
scale industries, provide solutions for the issues
pertaining to their protection due to COVID - 19

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

pandemic and look in to their financial needs for
developing businesses under this situation.

Under the first phase of this programme, data
has been collected visiting the business places
of such entrepreneurs in small scale industries in
the areas of Panadura, Bulathsinhala, Kalutara
and Aluthgama of Kalutara district. In the
meantime, sanitizers, liquid hand wash, gloves,
masks, face shields, hand washing equipment
etc. have been distributed along with the posters
and leaflets with safety instructions for the
prevention of COVID - 19. Further, awareness
programmes were conducted with the application
of Zoom App and G mail facility.


c. Ensuring service deliveries amidst
COVID - 19 pandemic

containing instructions to be followed
for the safety of employees have also
been distributed

« An awareness programme has been

conducted by National Institute of
Occupational Safety and Health
for the benefit of school children to
communicate safety measure for
COVID - 19. Under this programme,
they were made aware of the safety
measures to be followed at both home
and the schools whilst distributing
masks and sanitizers

Guidelines have been issued along
with the safety measures under
which industries should maintain their
industries during the pandemic. These
guidelines have been issued in Sinhala
medium on the request of all the
industrialists. In the meantime, leaflets

With the participation of employees
and the management of industries,
awareness programmes for the
protection from COVID - 19 pandemic
have been conducted through internet
with the application of Zoom App. In
the meantime, relevant parties were
coordinated for awareness programmes
using e mail and telephone facility

Awareness programmes have been
conducted and leaflets containing
health and safety measures, which
should be followed in camps, have been
distributed among the war heroes who
fight at the front against COVID - 19
pandemic for safeguarding the people
of the country

“GOGHIO S665"

“GC  L9IC LIAS :

a       Raa
-                   :
V,    |     i   Fi     »      V4 me   WJ
AYE B= !   %®            1    RT - 4
AR 8 uh
[      nn Gl       a    |    7
j               ;    1   5A                \
3    EY                 .
"       J             NR      3                     3,
"                  4
£       ~.   n   EL
J   ,     gar                    "
J    CS     F                  ha
fm Ma      ,               nH    5
nn    -     \   d           CR i Te      ’
Pn,    "              £        > Na L)   §
5
’                            ou Ng NaN
:
ks

[ELAM EUNICE EIR (0 Cla (eT R= (To CR ORG CR EET [OL] o£: Mg To] ETO ET) Fo

 


2.2.4 Office of the Commissioner for
Workmen's Compensation

2.2.4.1 Introduction

The Workmen's Compensation Ordinance No. 19
of 1934 was enacted to provide for the payment
of compensation to workers for accidents caused
in the course of employment. The principal
enactment was amended on several occasions,
the last of which was done by the Act No.
10 of 2005. The Workmen's Compensation
Court comprises 14 circuit courts covering the
entire Island with the powers of district judge
and magisterial powers. The Office of the
Commissioner for Workmen's Compensation
has 43 positions including the Commissioner
for Workmen's Compensation, Additional
Commissioner for Workmen's Compensation
& Assistant Commissioner for Workmen's
Compensation who are judicial officers appointed
by the Judicial Services Commission and 1 post
of Grade | of the Sri Lanka Accounting Service
and 1 post of the Sri Lanka Administrative
Service.

Provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
Code of Civil Procedure, and Evidence Ordinance
are applicable for the workmen compensation
court procedure, the appeal procedure is
equivalent to that of district court.

Vision

Ensuring employees’ satisfaction by making
employers to pay compensation speedily for
employees in the event of injury or death

Mission

Initiating court proceedings and offering
instructions to make employers to pay prescribed
compensation for workmen and their dependents

in the event of injury, death or disease whilst
being employed

Key Functions

« Activities pertaining to recovery of
compensation from employers for
accidents, occupational diseases
arising out of in the cause of
employment in the public or private
sector and for dependents in the event
of death of workmen. (According to
the last amendment, the maximum
compensation that can be granted is
Rs. 550,000/-)

« Keeping the custody of the
compensation entitled to minor
dependants of a deceased workman in
National Savings Bank until they reach
maturity

* In circumstances where the employer
defaults the payment of compensation,
seizing the movable and immovable
property of such employer and sell
them in public auction to recover
compensation

« Issuance, renewal and cancellation
of workmen compensation insurance
licenses

+ Conducting onsite inspections in event
of an accident caused to an employee

« Causing compensation to be recovered
for workmen employed in ships and
aircraft registered in Sri Lanka for
accidents caused outside Sri Lanka

: h  a |

Vs ile  aa

Image 2-8 Discussion with the officials of the affiliated institutions

 

»

.


Number of fatal accidents reported

19%

   

Transport (Vehicle) Accidents

6%

Estate Sector                                                                                      43%
Construcion Sector

Government Institutions (Corporation, Boards, Authority)

17%

Other (Production & Service Sector)

Fetal Accidents - 129

15%

Figure 2 - 11 Number of fatal accidents reported

[1130] oT oo) Mo oTo IER 7: 1:1 IF: Tl {a LTR) EY =] o Jo] (Te

5%

Transport (Vehicle) Accidents

Estate Sector

Construcion Sector

60%

Government Institutions (Corporation, Boards, Authority)

Other (Production & Service Sector)

Non - Fetal accidents - 195

 

Figure 2-12 Number of non-fatal accidents reported

2.2.4.2 The Duties Performed

a. Progress in the payment of compensation

 

Table 2 - 22 Progress of the payment of compensation
S. No.                                         Function                                        Amount

298

Number of the cases pertaining to fatal and non-fatal accidents, which have been
concluded

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

 


Number of the agreements, which have been registered (Pertaining to the com-
2       pensations paid at non-fatal accidents, with the concurrence of both employer          87
and employee)

Amounts recovered as the compensation for fatal and non-fatal accidents (Rs.

3                                                                                                                151.7
Mn.)

4       Amounts deposited in the saving accounts of minor dependants (Rs. Mn.)              17.2

5       Number of the accounts opened at banks for minors                                           80

6       Number of the accounts, which have been released upon minors reaching the age        ~
of 18 years

7      Amount paid from the minors' accounts, which have been released (Rs. Mn.)          10.4

b. Financial Progress

 

Table 2 - 23 Financial progress of the Office of the Commissioner for Workmen's Compensation

Description             Total Provision (Rs.)         Expenditure (Rs.)          Expenditure as a

percentage
Recurrent Expenditure                  33,850,000.00                31,216,502.00                            92.2%
Capital Expenditure                        900,000.00                   411,447.00                        45.7%
Total Expenditure                        34,750,000.00                 31,627,949.00                            91.0%

 

   

-                           Be

1 GF

Image 2-9 Awarding scholarships for the children of employees victimized due to accidents


2.2.5 National Productivity Secretariat
2.2.5.1 Introduction

At present National Productivity Secretariat
is governed under the Ministry of Labour and
various measures have been launched for the
enhancement of productivity within Sri Lanka
after obtaining membership of Asian Productivity
Organization in 1966. National Productivity
Secretariat has been established in 1994 and
it has resulted in the implementation a speedy
mechanism on productivity.

Vision
To be the Centre of Excellence in Productivity
Promotion

Mission
To Enable Sri Lanka to Face the International
Competitiveness ~~ through ~~ Promotion of

Productivity and Contribute to the National
Development and Enhancing Standard of Life

Main functions

* Implementation of productivity promotion
programmes aiming at the public, education,
community sectors and small scale
entrepreneurs

* Implementation of training programmes in
relation to the fields of productivity

« Provision of consultancy services for the
enhancement of productivity of institutions

* Implementation of programmes joining with
Asian Productivity Organization

« Implementation of '5S' certification
programme

* Implementation of media and publicity
campaigns

+ Conducting National Productivity Competition
and Prize Awarding Ceremony

2.2.5.2 The Duties Performed

a. Financial Progress

Recurrent Expenditure

480

 

471.1
460

 

 

40                               436.86

 

 

Rs. Mn.

420

400

m Allocation                     m Expenditure

Figure 2 -13 Progress of the recurrent expenditure of
National Productivity Secretariat

Since the health and safety measure have to
be followed in the face of COVID - 19 global
pandemic during 2020, it has to face with certain
problematic situations in the performance of
subject related activities. Field duties have to be
restricted due to the limits imposed on movements
and gatherings etc. and further, practical issues
were observed in conducting programmes for
promotion and consultation. Therefore, a balance
of 51.3% was reported in the capital expenditure
in year 2020.

or: Tol1 1 (LT Te [I(T]

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rs. Mn.

 

m Allocation

m Expenditure

Figure 2-14 Progress in the capital expenses of National
Productivity Secretariat

b. Special Programmes

.    Special Programmes conducted under
the directions of H.E. the President

Under the directions of H.E. the President,
following productivity promotion programmes
have been implemented in the below mentioned
institutions for ensuring effective and productive
service delivery. Accordingly, necessary
enhancements have been made by way of

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


referring a report to the Management, which
contained matters such as preparation of an
appropriate methodology to minimize the time
spent by recipients at office premises to obtain
their services, enhancement of the efficiency
and productivity of the institution, analyzing the
existing customer service processes in order to
make such processes more efficient, conducting
a survey on the customers' satisfaction, revision
of processes and discussions with higher
management and the staff etc.

Department of the Commissioner of Motor Traffic
Divisional Secretariat, Thimbirigasyaya
Outpatient Department (OPD) at National Hospital
Department of Immigration and Emigration
Department of Registration of Persons

c. Special Projects

. Implementing green productivity
concept within printing institutes

A special project for the implementation of green
productivity concept within printing institutes have
been introduced with the intervention of National
Productivity Secretariat for Wijaya Newspapers
Limited and State Printing Corporation. This project

. -    4     re
wES  e.
yr

Image 2-10 At Privena Productivity Promotion Programme

3    “A

has been implemented with the application of
Material Flow Cost Accounting in order to achieve
the goals such as utilizing resources in efficient
manner, minimizing carbon emission and wastage
and improving the total productivity of the institute.

.  Conducting programmes for the
branches of Bank of Ceylon

With a view to direct all branches of Bank of
Ceylon all over the country to apply productivity
concept, productivity promotion programmes
have been implemented. These tasks have been
carried out without any initial cost and it helps to
enhance customer care services through efficient
and qualitative services. Future activities of this
programme will be carried out in year 2021.

.   Conducting programmes for district
labour officers

Productivity promotion programmes have been
implemented in 34 district labour offices in
order to ensure qualitative and effective service
by way of enhancing the productivity of all the
district offices of the country. A large number of
recipients visit these offices daily and therefore
the existing methods and processes have been

 

 


enhanced by the audit conducted in this regard.

.    Conducting programmes for Sri Lanka
Transport

A series of special programmes has been conducted
during year 2020 in order to maintain all the Depots
and Driving Learning Schools governed under Sri
Lanka TransportBoard all over the country as per “6S”
concept and the main objective of this programme is
to enhance the quality and effectiveness of services
of the institute with the establishment of productive
and efficient work environment.

.       “5S” Audit programme

“9S” audit programme is implemented
annually with the objective of establishing
proper environment through ensuring
“9S” standards within the institutions.
Accordingly, “56S” audits have been
conducted during year 2020 spending
Rs. 386,411.60 in 61 institutions and this
programme will be implemented also in
year 2021.

.      Certificate course on productivity

With a view to enhance the productivity of the
institutions by way of enhancing the knowledge
of public officers serving in Kurunegala,
Jaffna, Mannar, Killlinochchi, Vavuniya and
Batticaloa districts on productivity, a series of
programmes has been successfully completed
and 250 officers have participated in these
programmes. Further, a certificate course on
productivity has also been conducted online
for the service sector with the participation of
38 persons and this programme has also been
successfully completed.

.     Productivity promotion programme for
Pirivena management
Under the national programme for grading
pirivenas on productivity identifying combined
Quality Indicators for Pirivenas, audit
programmes have been concluded in 166
Pirivenas established in Trincomalee, Mathale,
Ampara,  Polonnaruwa,  Anuradhapura,
Kandy, and Batticaloa districts joining with the
Pirivena Division of the Ministry of Education.

 

Table 2-24 Progress of the productivity promotion programmes for Pirivena management

Number of Pirivena, of which the audits
activities were finalised

S.No.                              District

Trincomalee
Ampara
Mathale
Polonnaruwa
Kandy
Anuradhapura
Batticaloa

~N OO Or BA WN ~~

Total

.   'Pala Sapiri Pirivena’ Programme
(Pirivenas with maximum productivity)

This programme has been implemented with the
objective of introducing modern productivity concepts
to the Pirivena system aiming at the achievement of the
goals of Pirivena education. When the Pirivenas were
strengthened as per 'Pala Sapiri Pirivena’ Concept, this
programme has been implemented in 679 Pirivenas
in 19 districts belonging to Western, North Western,
Central, North Central, Eastern, and Uva provicnes.

07
23
23
15
48
49
01

166

.   Small scale enterprises development
programme

6,620 small scale entrepreneurs have been
selected (20 from each Divisional Secretary's
Division) covering 331 Divisional Secretary's
Divisions all over the country and accordingly,
under the small scale enterprises development
programme, efficiency of their service delivery
has been enhanced through the application of
productivity concept.

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


During year 2020, the tasks such as identification
of entrepreneurs, their categorization as per
the nature of the business and registration etc.
have been made and further an awareness
programme has been conducted on 15.09.2020
for 27 District Coordinators at the premises
of National Productivity Secretariat. Future
activities of this programme will be carried out
in year 2021.

d. Programmes implemented in the Public
Sector

Awareness programmes, which are required for
the maintenance of qualitative service delivery
and efficient work environment under Public
Sector, have been conducted with necessary
guidelines and further 5S training programmes
have been implemented in the following
institutions along with methodologies for the
enhancement of productivity.

«Office of the Prime Minister

« Office of the Governor of Southern
Province

* Ministry of Labour

« Ministry of Higher Education

* Ministry of Defense

+ Department of Sri Lanka Police

«Department of Wildlife Conservation

+ Department of Posts

+ Department of Railway

« All the Divisional Secretariats of
Colombo district

+ National Institute of Health Science

+ Base Hospital, Wathupitiwala

+ Defense Division of Sri Lanka Air Force

+ National Youth Council

«National Procurement Commission

 Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Drug Corporation

« Department of Textiles - North Western
Provincial Council

e. Programmes implemented in education
sector

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

Productivity promotion programmes are being
conducted in the following institutions under
education sector.
« Institutes of Higher Education -
University of Ruhuna, University of
Sri Jayawardenapura, University of
Kelaniya, Buddhist and Pali University
of Sri Lanka
« Zonal Education Office, Kelaniya
Vocational Training Authority
+ Technological Collages
+ Selected schools and Pre schools
« Department of Technical Education and
Training
« Lalith  Athulathmudali
Training Center
« Vocational Training Authority and
Vocational Training Center, Narahenpita
« Teachers Training Center, Negambo,
Bolawalana Narahenpita and Kelaniya

Vocational

f. Programmes conducted in service
sector

Productivity promotion programmes have been
conducted for the following institutes

+ Nikado Institute, Kadawatha

+ Ceylon Electricity Board, Western Zone

« National Water Supply and Drainage
Board

» Road Passenger Transport Authority

«Road Development Authority

Central Environmental Authority

+ National Child Protection Authority

+ Department of Government Factory

+ National Lotteries Board

+ Sirasa Stein Studio

« Shama Vasana Fund

+ National Science Foundation

« Savikma Automation Pvt Limited,
Kahathuduwa

+ Radeeja Holdings, Nugegoda

g. Implementing productivity concepts


within institutes by way of prescribing     Productivity Development Officers attached

target values for Productivity    to District Secretariats to select one of each
Development Officers                               institutions listed below to conduct programmes.
Productivity concepts are applied within the     * Hospitals
institutions by way of prescribing annual target         + Offices of the Land Register
values for Productivity Development Officers,      + Zonal Education Office
who have been attached to District and Divisional           * District Secretariats
Secretariats. Main objective of this programme is       » Courts / Police Stations
to make the community services efficient through             + Institutions in private sector
innovations, effectiveness and productive work
environment.                    The targets prescribed for the Productivity
Development Officers attached to Divisional
Accordingly, the targets prescribed for the   Secretariats are as follows.

 

LE CWA DREN CY J Cog] oT Rio] ig CR = (os [Na ABCA [o] ola I Oi [v= SE A ST o Tg ETM AYE]

S. No.                          Type of institution                             Number of the targets
1          Government Institutions                                                    02
2            Pirivenas                                                                                   01
3           Pre schools                                                                          02

Image 2-11 Conducting programmes for the Office of the Prime Minister

 

=           ey                    i


2.3 Special Achievements, Challenges
and Future Goals

One of the timely responsibilities entrusted to
our Ministry is the formulation of legal provisions
in consistent with the social and economical
conditions, which have been recognized at
national and international level, and labour
conventions and standards so as to achieve
the future progress of the country and create an
investment friendly environment in Sri Lanka.
Accordingly, the Ministry is bound to amend
laws, acts and ordinances, which are in effect
at present, to cater present and future work
environment and further to ensure the rights of
the working people. Attention should be paid also
to the facts mentioned below in this regard.

.     Vision, mission and the objectives of the
Ministry

.      Matters, which have been included in the
policy manifesto 'Vistas of Prosperity and
Splendour’ in relation to the scope of the
Ministry of Labour

.     Tasks and functions entrusted to the
Ministry by the Gazette Extraordinary No.
2196/27 dated 06.10.2020 and special
priorities

.    Sustainable Development Goals, which
are related exclusively to the Ministry

.     Matters included in the international
conventions agreed by Sri Lanka in
relation to the field of labour

Itis a land mark, which should be highlighted with
pride that the Ministry had the ability to present
a considerable number of achievements to the
labour force whilst maintaining industrial peace
even amidst the difficulties made by COVID -
19 pandemic during year 2020. Therefore, the
achievements, which have already been made,
and the future goals are hereby submitted for the
attention of the readers.

Taking necessary actions to avoid the adverse
effects caused by COVID - 19 pandemic

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

e Taking actions to protect the employments,
which were in the risk of termination due to
the employees’ inability to report for duty
as they had to follow health guidelines
and social distance and safeguarding the
employee by way of assuring a minimum
monthly salary of Rs. 14,500/- or more

Working people of the country had to undergo
numerous hardships in the face of COVID - 19
pandemic. Therefore, ‘Tripartite Taskforce’,
has been established as a subcommittee to
the National Labour Advisory Council which
is the main mechanism for social dialogue,
for safeguarding the rights of the workmen
of the country. With the establishment of this
mechanism, action has been initiated to ensure
the job security of both male and female
employees and make precautions with a view
to minimize the effect caused to the employees
as well as the institutions due to the pandemic.
Since it has to maintain social distance with
safety measures, the employees had to face
difficulties in reporting for duty. This has raised
a grave challenge in the maintenance of national
production at a steady level and further, assuring
the job security of employees has also become
a critical issue. Under such circumstance, the
Task Force conducted meetings constantly
even during curfew periods and thereby it could
make successful solutions for the issues to the
challenges maintaining a sound understanding
with all stakeholders.

This taskforce has provided a tremendous
assistance to build credibility among different
stakeholders and further to take necessary
action before the issue becomes a crisis. Under
this circumstance, following concurrences were
made at the meetings of the Task Force for the
payment of salaries to the employees, who were
denied of works due to COVID - 19 pandemic.

Making agreement between employers and
employees of the institutions, of which work
processes have been stopped due to COVID


- 19 pandemic, with a view to protect the job
opportunities of employees

+ Implementation of a duty roaster system or
any other suitable system at such occasions,
where all the staff cannot be called for work
due to health guidelines and the social
distance rules, in order to assure that every
employee receives work on proportionate
basis

« Making the employers of the businesses
in the fields, which cannot maintain still
activities at normal pace due to COVID - 19
pandemic, and the businesses in tourism
field, agreed to pay either 50% of the basic
salary of the last month or Rs. 14,500/-
whichever is higher, up to the month of
December 2020 with the prior approval of
the Commissioner General of Labour, and to
pay salaries from May up to September to
the employees retained at home without any
duty. Further, it was prescribed to pay the
contributions to Employees’ Provident Fund
and Employees’ Trust Fund for the salaries
paid in the above manner

» Safeguarding small and middle scale
entrepreneurs, who are adversely
affected by COVID - 19 pandemic

The most vulnerable parties of the COVID - 19
pandemic is the small scale and medium scale
entrepreneurs and industrialists. With a view
to protect these entrepreneurs and provide
knowledge on occupational safety and health
for their future progress, workshops have been
organized covering Gampaha and Kalutara
districts. In the meantime, a large number of
programmes have also been conducted joining
with International Labour Organization and Non-
Government Organizations in order to make
an environment to run their businesses without
interruption. Further, taking action to extend
the loan facilities and other assistances, which

were given to industrialists through banks on
lower interest rates in order to settle difficulties in
working capital, to the industries in the field.

* Identifying the precautions, which
are necessary to assure the national
production at optimum level at such
pandemics, which may occur in future

During the period from April to May, Department
of Labour has conducted an online survey
on 'Beyond COVID - 19 pandemic: effects of
pandemic to the labour market of Sri Lanka'.
Further, research papers were called under
the theme 'COVID - 19: Labour Issues and
Responses’ and accordingly, a journal has also
been published. Main objective of this measure
is the collection of particulars of the institutes in
private sector, which were adversely affected
by COVID - 19 pandemic, and these particulars
would be utilized by the Government for the
provision of productive, targeted and well-
planned policy responses. Accordingly, 2,764
field institutions in private sector have made their
responses online for the survey. Further, the
phase 02 of this process is due to be conducted
in year 2021.

Increasing the present minimum national
wage of Rs. 10,000/- by Rs. 2500/- up to Rs.
12,500/-

When all the legal requirements are satisfied
and the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers is
obtained to table the bill of the National Minimum
Wage Amendment Act at the Parliament and
once itis passed by the Parliament, the employer
is bound by the Act to pay a minimum salary
of Rs. 16,000/- which is the aggregate of the
minimum salary of Rs. 12,500/- and budgetary
relief allowance of Rs. 3,500/- to engagement of
an employee.

Increasing the daily minimum wage of estate
worker up to Rs. 1,000/-

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


All the necessary actions have already been
taken to increase the minimum daily wage of
estate workers in tea and rubber industries up
to Rs. 1,000/- with a view to enhance their life
condition.

Increasing the maximum compensation, paid
at the termination employment up to Rs.
2,500,000/-

Having taken into consideration the fact that
the maximum compensation paid, whenever
the employees are removed from service in an
unreasonable way and when the employees
loss their jobs as a result of closing institutions,
is limited to Rs. 1,250,000/- the maximum
compensation has been legalized by publishing
a notification in the Government Gazette to
increase the maximum compensation to be paid
to the employees from Rs. 1,250,000/- to Rs.
2,500,000/- on the approval of the Cabinet of
Ministers.

Expediting the process for the payment of
compensation to employees

Amending the laws in order to place a security
in filing writ applications, appeals and motions
against the decisions and grants issued under
Termination of Employment (Special Provisions)
Act and Industrial Disputes Act.

Action has already been taken to table the two bills
to the Parliament in order to amend Termination of
Employment (Special Provisions) Act and Industrial
Disputes Act enabling to initiate legal action only
after placing a security at the Commissioner
General of Labour, whenever the employers expect
to take legal action against an order issued by the
Commissioner General of Labour under above
Acts or a decision given by a Magistrate Court to
give effect to such order or Industrial Arbitration
Award or Labour Tribunal Award.

Elimination of child labour in the country

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

Sri Lanka has now taken many actions to
eliminate the child labour in every form including
the engagement in hazardous employments.
Therefore, action is taken to prepare the road
map to create a Sri Lanka devoid of child labour
and to identify the fields where child labour is
widely seen. Further, measures are taken to
implement programmes designed exclusively for
the purpose.

.  Raising the minimum age of
employment from 14 years to 16 years

The law has prescribed that children of
Sri Lanka should have their education
until they reach 16 years of age and it
is a right ensured by the law. However,
it had become possible to employ
legally children over 14 years of age
and therefore legal provisions of Labour
Laws of Sri Lanka have been amended to
restrict child labour.

.    Making the fisheries industry free of
child labour

A series of programmes have been
conducted for elimination of child labour
obtaining collaboration of the Ministry
of Fisheries and institutions under the
Ministry. Accordingly, relevant initiatives
have been taken with a view to make the
field free of child labour.

.    Settling complaints received on child
labour without delay

Action has been taken to make the
processes for investigating complaints
on child labour, their reporting and taking
legal action when cases on child labour
are confirmed, efficient through hotline
"1929" (Sri Lanka Child helpline) of
National Child Protection Authority.

.     Protection of children from hazardous
work


Imposing orders on hazardous works
under the Employment of Women, Young
Persons and Children Act. The list of
hazardous works is prepared to avoid
engagement of persons below the age of
18 years in hazardous works. Under this
process, a list of 71 hazardous works,
in which children cannot be engaged, is
submitted and it is expected to propose
to prohibit the engagement of them in
works such as acting in connection with
gymnastic or other risky acting, works
in slaughter houses, employments
connected with harmful radiation,
employments in liquor shops, bars and
casino clubs, and production, selling
transportation of fire arms etc. Protection
of youths between the age of 16-18 years
are assured in this way and measures
have been made to publish these orders
in the Government Gazette promptly.

Increasing the compensation paid for an
accident occurs whilst in duty

Increasing the compensation of Rs. 550,000/-
up to Rs. 2 million, which is paid under
Workmen's Compensation Ordinance, to the
persons, who are injured physically, become
disabled or demise in the course of their
employment.

Provisions have been made to order an employer
to pay compensation subject to the maximum
limit of Rs. 550,000/- based on the monthly
salary of the employee, when an employee /
dependent makes a request under Workmen's
Compensation Ordinance in connection to the
physical damages, disabilities or demise of an
employee in the course of employment. Since this
amount is not sufficient, approval of the Cabinet
of Ministers has been obtained to increase the
maximum compensation up to Rs. 2 million.
Further, action has been taken to amend the
Workmen's Compensation Ordinance No. 19 of
1934 with the inclusion of a provision to the effect
that the employer should make contributions to a
workmen's compensation insurance scheme for
the payment of compensation.

LE) CY LGR EV Un TIER RYE Clo Re [glo Me] (o] lok =To Neolgg fT RE oly

 

Existed               Maximum limit
S. No.                       Accident                           maximum
limit (Rs)               proposed (Rs.)
1        Death of an employee                                   550,000/-                     2,000,000/-
2       Compensation paid for permanent disability         550,000/-                    2,000,000/-
3        Compensation paid for temporary disability             5,500/-                         47,500/-

Vesting a concurrent judicial power in the
Commissioner for Workmen's Compensation
Labour Tribunals in order to expedite the
arbitration process applied on disputes
connecting to the payment of workmen's
compensation

Office of the Commissioner for Workmen's
Compensation intervenes for granting the

compensations to the employees, who suffer
physical injuries, become disabled permanently
and to heirs of the employee demises due
to accidents occur in the course of their
employment. Since it takes at present along time
to grant the compensation, it is expected to vest
concurrent judicial powers in the chairmen of
Labour Tribunals in each area to issue a verdict
after hearing cases on workmen's compensation

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


by way of amending workmen's compensation
ordinance and accordingly, the Legal Draftsman
has been informed to prepare an amendment bill
on the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers. In
addition to the above, action has also been taken
to update the list of occupational diseases for
which compensations are paid, revising it in the
meantime.

Introduction of a new Act for occupational
safety, employees’ health and welfare

Basic legal framework, which is in force in
Sri Lanka, on occupational safety and health
of employees is found only in the Factory
Ordinance imposed before 79 years. It has
been identified that the existing legal provisions
are not adequate to assure occupational safety,
health and welfare in order to avoid the damage
and effect caused to employees, community and
environment due to reasons such as change in
production processes due to enhancement of
modern technology, increase in the usage of
chemicals etc. Further, action is now being taken
to prescribe standards, which are recognized
at international level, as national criteria of Sri
Lanka, in order to encourage a safe and healthy
working environment through activities of service
stations and to ensure safety, health and welfare
of employees. Adraft of a bill, which is required to
introduce a new Occupational Safety Act for the
purpose of providing guidelines and directions as
per new practices, has already been prepared
and therefore, action is being taken to obtain
approval of the Cabinet of Ministers for the same.

Payment of compensation, had to be paid to
the employees due to closing down of Lanka
Tractors Limited

Since the Sri Lanka Tractors Corporation, which
has been established in year 1972, had to run
with loss after its privatization as Sri Lanka
Tractors Limited, a request had been made to the
Department of Labour to remove 87 employees
of the institution in year 2002. Therefore, they

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

had been removed from service after granting
of Rs. 29,321,619/- by the General Treasury for
the payment of their arrears of salaries, gratuities
and compensations, which has to be paid to
them. However, compensation has not been paid
to the remaining employees.

The employees, who have lost their employments
after serving a long period in Sri Lanka Tractors
Limited, have made requests constantly to the
Ministry of Labour and Department of Labour
for compensation paying attention to the severe
economic hardships faced by them for a number
of years from year 2002, mentioning that several
employees have already demised suffering
mental and physical disabilities and other
employees are in a vulnerable situation in their
old age.

Accordingly, prompt action has been taken by the
Ministry of Labour with the intervention of Hon.
Minister of Labour to get the provision required
for the purpose from General Treasury. As a result
of this effort, the Ministry could get a budgetary
provision of Rs. 22,006,083.42, allocated for
the Department of Labour for the payment of
gratuities, salaries in arrears and contributions
to be paid to Employees’ Provident Fund for 128
employees. Therefore, Ministry could pay the
compensation to employees using this provision,
which could not be paid for more than 18 years.

Introducing a new Act (Special Provisions) to
vest concurrent powers in Magistrate Courts
and Labour Tribunals to expedite the hearing
of cases on labour issues

At present only the cases filed under Industrial
Dispute Act are heard by Labour Tribunals and
all the judicial powers under labour laws and
ordinances are applied by Magistrate Court.
Since it is difficult practically to hear cases on
labour issues amidst other criminal cases heard
by Magistrate Courts, a tendency is observed in
postponing cases on labour issues giving long
dates. Under such circumstance, more than


16,000 cases on labour issues are stagnating
at Magistrate Courts. Therefore, it has to wait
for 5-6 years to grant the statutory rights to
employees such as gratuities, contributions
of Employees’ Provident Fund and arrears of
salaries etc. due to this delay in settling cases.
The proposal made by Hon. Minister of Labour
to the Cabinet of Ministers to vest the powers to
settle the cases in Labour Tribunals all over the
Island minimizing the adverse effect caused to
employees, has been approved by the Cabinet
of Ministers and accordingly Industrial Dispute
Act (Special Provisions) is now being amended
so as to vest concurrent powers in Magistrate
Courts and Labour Tribunals all over the Island
for hearing cases on labour issues.

Amending Industrial Dispute Act enabling
to expedite action taken on private sector
employees subjected to disciplinary action or
interdicted

Whenever an employee is interdicted, there is
no specific provision in labour laws regarding a
time frame, in which a decision should be given
after conducting a disciplinary inquiry on the
charges leveled against such employee. It has
been reported that employees interdicted have to
face with various economic and social hardships
at certain occasions under such circumstances.
Accordingly, the proposal made by the Hon.
Minister of Labour to the Cabinet of Ministers
has been approved to amend Industrial Dispute
Act in order to make opportunity to issue a final
disciplinary order conducting a disciplinary
inquiry within a period of 06 months from the
date of interdiction and further to pay him half
of the salary during the period of interdiction,
if the charge is not fallen under financial fraud.
Therefore, amendment bill is due to be tabled in
the parliament.

Amending Industrial Dispute Act enabling the
representatives, who are not Attorneys At Law,
to appear for the cases filed at Labour Tribunals
under Industrial Dispute Act

Even though representatives have been given
opportunity earlier to appear for employees at
Labour Tribunals, it was observed a situation
where Chairmen of Labour Tribunals do not
allow them to appear for such cases. However,
approval has been granted by the Cabinet
of Ministers to amend Industrial Dispute Act
enabling the representatives, who are not
Attorneys At Law, to appear for the cases filed
at Labour Tribunals under Industrial Dispute Act
and at present action is being taken to amend
relevant acts.

Amending Employees’ Provident Fund for
registering an employee at the Department
of Labour within 30 days from the date of
recruitment

It is expected to amend orders of the
Employees’ Provident Fund for making the
registration of an employee compulsory
within 30 days from the date of recruitment
at the Labour Office covering the area, where
the service station is located. Even though
the employer is bound by the existing legal
provisions to provide relevant particulars, no
specific time frame has been determined for
the submission of such particulars. Under
such circumstance, most of employers credit
contributions of Employees’ Provident Fund to
Central Bank of Sri Lanka but employees have
to face problematic situations when applying
for the benefits due to negligence of employers
to register their employees at the Department
of Labour filling of ABH formats. Therefore,
necessary action is being taken to amend the
orders of Employees’ Provident Fund to avoid
the delay in the registration. It can be treated
as the fulfillment of a policy decision indicated
in the policy manifesto ‘Vistas of Prosperity and
Splendour’.

Introducing a SMS service for informing the
members of Employees’ Provident Fund
instantly regarding the contributions credited
monthly to the fund

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


Even though the employer remits properly
the monthly contribution for employees to the
Employees’ Provident Fund, at present no facility
is available for the convenience of the employee
to verify whether contributions are remitted.
However, only the balance of the account is
informed to the member by the Biannual Accounts
Statement. The inability of the employee to verify
within a short period regarding the remittances,
has caused various difficulties. However,
introduction of a SMS service to facilitate the
employee to get information monthly on his /
her account will pave way for such employee to
initiate prompt action in the case of neglecting
the payments by employers paying attention
of the Department of Labour. Approval of the
Cabinet of Ministers has been obtained in this
regard and therefore, necessary action is being
taken to introduce new provisions amending the
regulations of Employees’ Provident Fund.

Amending Employees’ Provident Fund
facilitating to enter into social security
agreements with foreign countries

It is expected to sign social security agreements
with relevant foreign countries in addition to
the amendment of Employees’ Provident Fund
for entering into social security agreements
with relevant countries enabling the employees
serving under Sri Lankan employer in foreign
territory to bring back the contributions paid to
social security fund of the country, when returning
the motherland. Under this, it is required to pay
contributions to Employees’ Provident Fund of
Sri Lanka continually for Sri Lankan employees
works under Sri Lankan employer in a country,
with which agreement are signed, and further to
pay contributions to the social security fund for
foreign employees who come to Sri Lanka for
working under an employer of his / her country.

Introducing a new act; ‘Minimum Age of

Retirement Act' in order to extend the
minimum age of retirement up to 60 years

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

No statutory provision is found for determining
an age limit for sending employees on retirement
in the labour laws, which are existing in Sri Lanka
on service conditions, service status, social
security and industrial relations of the employees
in private and semi government sectors. At
present the age of retirement of private and semi
government sectors is determined as per the
service agreement entered into by both employer
and employee or the conditions of collective
agreement. Even though the employees in
public sector are allowed to serve up to the
age of 60 years, employees serving in most of
private and semi government sectors are sent
on retirement either at 55 years of age or below.
At present the life expectation of a person of
Sri Lanka is nearly 75 years and therefore the
concurrence of the Cabinet of Ministers has
been granted to legalize the minimum age of
retirement of employees in private sector as 60
years with a view to update the age of retirement
of employees in private sector corresponding to
the same of public sector. However, it is required
to draft a bill for this purpose and to submit it
for the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers. In
the meantime, it can be treated as fulfillment of
a policy decision included in budget proposals
and the policy manifesto "Vistas of prosperity
and splendour’.

Stability of the employment of the employee
along with new trends of the world

Action will be taken to make the background to
secure the wellbeing, protection and convenience
of the employee arriving at policy decisions, which
are required for the progress of the workers,
after analyzing information obtained from the
researches by way of paying attention to the
changes occur in the sectors such as nature of
the employments, duration of work time, required
number of workers, employments generated and
their conditions, to which workers have to face,
within the existing fields of business as per the
new technological and scientific inventions.


Further, research papers have been called in
year 2020 in order to collect information on the
new inventions revealed by the research works
conducted on the issues faced by the employees
and industries under COVID - 19 pandemic
and the ways of finding solutions for them and
accordingly, a journal is now being printed under
the theme 'COVID - 19: Labour Issues and
Responses’. It expected to use this information
as a data source in the formulation of relevant
policies for making necessary directions required
in the maintenance of production institutes in the
face of such national disasters.

Welfare of employees and productivity of the
community

Implementation of programmes through following
profiles with a view to uplift the life conditions of
labour force based on the theme ‘productive
family’ in accordance with the policy manifesto
"Vistas of prosperity and splendour.

Economy

Social order and status
Education

Health and security

Cultural and religious progress

Further, many programmes have been
implemented for the enhancement of productivity
and simplification of processes aiming at the
enhancement of efficiency of institutions, which
provide directly services to employees.

Enhancing the efficiency in the delivery of
service

« Supply of instant services through
computer systems

Even though computer systems have been used
for the functions of Employees’ Provident Fund,
it has to be developed up to the level for making
facilities through internet for all activities from

applying for benefits up to payment of benefits.
Accordingly, projects have been commenced for
the supply of instant services through computer
network system so as to deliver all the services
and other works, which are to be ensured without
delay, from one counter / place.

* Widening the network of labour offices
assuring the convenience of employee

With a view to provide labour offices to the
districts, where there are no such offices
with required facilities, labour offices are now
being constructed at Hatton, Badulla and
Kurunegala spending Rs. 600 million and sub
labour offices at Ambalangoda and Dambulla
have been established spending Rs. 156
million.

Encouraging the employment of women

According to the population ratio of Sri Lanka, the
share of women in total population is nearly 51%
and 34% out of the above make their contribution
in the labour market. In terms of the present
provisions of Shop and Office Employees Act,
women can be engaged in duties at institutions,
except the shops and offices, which have been
given special permission, up to 8 p.m. only.
However, at present a large number of Back
Offices, which provide technological assistances
and accounting services for businesses such
as Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO) and
Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) based on
information technology, are being established
within Sri Lanka. Since the employees, who are
in such employments, are required to serve in
hours parallel to the time of other countries, it
is expected to amend legal provisions of Shop
and Office Employees Act making opportunity
for women to work in night shifts and thereby to
widen job opportunities for women. This can be
treated as fulfillment of a policy matter indicated
in the policy manifesto ‘Vistas of prosperity and
splendour’.

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


Research papers have been called in year 2020
for the research symposium under the theme
"Women at work" in order to identify the issues
faced by women at work. Therefore, it is due to
be conducted online in year 2021.

Commencement of a pilot programme under
community productivity programmes with the
objective of providing guidelines of productivity
to women engaged in self employments and
strengthening women entrepreneurs and thereby

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

enhancing national productivity and gross
national product.

MP D U K Mapa Pathirana
Secretary
Ministry of Labour


 

 

CHAPTER THREE

Overall Financial Performance for the Year ended
31st December 2020

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


Statement of Financial Performance

 

3.1 Statement of Financial Performance for the period ended 31% December 2020

Budget
2020

472,840,000
149,210,000
55,050,000
50,000
677,150,000

3,650,000
2,950,000
2,200,000
11,500,000
4,800,000
25,100,000

Revenue Receipts

Income Tax

Taxes on Domestic Goods & Services
Taxes on International Trade

Non Tax Revenue & Others

Total Revenue Receipts (A)

Non Revenue Receipts
Treasury Imprests

Deposits

Advance Accounts

Other Receipts

Total Non Revenue Receipts (B)

Total Revenue Receipts & Non Revenue Receipts
C=(A)+(B)

Less: Expenditure

Recurrent Expenditure

Wages, Salaries & Other Employment Benefits
Other Goods & Services

Subsidies, Grants and Transfers

Interest Payments

Other Recurrent Expenditure

Total Recurrent Expenditure (D)

Capital Expenditure

Rehabilitation & Improvement of Capital Assets
Acquisition of Capital Assets

Capital Transfers

Acquisition of Financial Assets

Capacity Building

Other Capital Expenditure

Total Capital (E)

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

 

Note

ODN =

© 00 ~N oo On

10
1
12
13
14
15

 

ACA -F

Actual
2020 (Rs.)       2019 (Rs.)

-         -   ACA-1
597,229,588 296,458,000 ACA-3
145,447,356 247,750,937 ACA-4
10,393,617   12,290,943 ACA-5
28,682,525    6,527,260
781,753,086 563,027,140
781,753,086 563,027,140
448,056,510   80,864,955
127,232,243   89,772,765
54,723,510   37,237,277 »ACA-2(ii)

74,841
630,012,263 207,949,838
3,007,462       664,006
2,078,047   91,029,172
2,200,000    4,657,937
         - (ACA-2(ii)
6,023,249     867,218
4,465,785    13,860,467 J
17,774,542 111,078,800


Main Ledger Expenditure (F)                                     156,322,821 260,155,253

Deposit Payments                                             151,093,603 243,426,324 ACA-4
Advance                                                            5,229,218 16,728,929 ACA-5
Payments
Total Expenditure G = (D+E+F)                                          804,109,627 579,183,891
- Imprest Balance as at 31° December 2020 H = (C-G)               (22,356,541) (16,156,752)

3.2 Statement of Financial Position as at 31°t December 2020

ACA-P
Actual
Note              2020 (Rs.)          2019 (Rs.)
Non Financial Assets
Property, Plant & Equipment                                                        ACA-6                582,687,237          575,898,787
Financial Assets
Advance Accounts                                                                         ACA-5                  55,524,372           60,688,772
Cash & Cash Equivalents                                                  ACA-3
Total Assets                                                                                                                            638,211,609            636,587,559
Net Assets / Equity
Net Worth to Treasury                                                                                              38,779,611            38,349,015
Property, Plant & Equipment Reserve                                                                    582,687,237          575,898,787
Current Liabilities
Deposits Accounts                                                                         ACA-4                  16,474,737           22,120,984
Imprest Balance                                                                       ACA-3                    270,024               218,773
Total Liabilities                                                                                                        638,211,609          636,587,559

Detail Accounting Statements in above ACA format Nos. 1 to 58 presented in pages from 7
to 57 and Notes to accounts presented in pages from 58 to 70 and integral parts of
these Financial Statements. The Financial Statements have been prepared in complying with the Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles whereas most appropriate Accounting Policies are used as disclosed in the
Notes to the Financial Statements and hereby certify that figures in these Finacial Statements, Notes to accounts
and other relevant accounts were reconciled with the Treasury Books of Accounts and found to in agreement.

Chief Accounting Officer                                           Accounting Officer
Date : 30" June 2021                                                       Date : 30" June 2021

:        ;                                    J. A. D. S. Nishamini
M P D U K Mapa Pathirana                             Spay
Secretary

Ministry of Labour

Ministry of Labour                                                         6th Floor. *                 _
W              n                           oor, “Mehewara Piyesa
7th Floor, *Mehewara Piyesa                                Narshensits,

Narahenpita                                                        Colombo 05.
Colombo - 05

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

 


3.3 Statement of Cash Flows for the Period ended 315tDecember - 2020

ACA-C
Actual
2020 (Rs.)       2019 (Rs.)

Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Total Tax Receipts                                                                                                        -                 -
Fees, Fines, Penalties and Licenses                                                                                -                -

Profit

Non Revenue Receipts                                                                            28,682,525 6,527,260
Treasury Receipts                                                                                          628,523,532 296,458,000
Total Cash generated from Operations (a)                                                              657,206,057 302,985,260

Less - Cash disbursed for:

Personal Emoluments & Operating Payments                                                        612,095,558 189,683,214
Subsidies & Transfer Payments                                                                                     11,200,000 20,667,239
Other heads                                                                                                           2,134,705

Finance Costs - Imprest Settlement to Treasury                                                           31,293,944                 -
Total Cash disbursed for Operations (b)                                                          656,724,207 210,350,453
NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (c) = (a) - ( b)                                     481,850 92,634,807

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Interest                                                                                                                    -                 -
Dividends                                                                                                                  -                 -
Divestiture Proceeds & Sale of Physical Assets                                                                      -                 -
Recoveries from on Lending                                                                               7,517,242                -
Total Cash generated from Investing Activities (d)                                                          7,517,242                  -

Less - Cash disbursed for:

Purchase or Construction of Physical Assets & Acquisition of Other Investment                      6,788,450 90,893,985
Payment of Advances                                                                                                               6,856,889

Total Cash disbursed for Investing Activities (e)                                                         13,645,339 90,893,985
NET CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES (f) = (d) - (e)                                      (6,128,097) (90,893,985)
NET CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING & INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (g) = (c) + (f)           (5,646,247) 1,740,822

Cash Flows from Fianacing Activities
Local Borrowings                                                                                             -               -
Foreign Borrowings                                                                                          -               -

Return of Deposits                                                                                    145,447,356
Grants Received                                                                                                   -                -
Total Cash generated from Financing Activities (h)                                               145,447,356                -

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

 


Less - Cash disbursed for :

Repayment of Local Borrowings

Repayment of Foreign Borrowings

Change in Deposit Accounts and Other Liabilities
Total Cash disbursed for Financing Activities (i)

NET CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES (j) = (h) - (i)

Net Movement in Cash (k) = (g) - (j)
Opening Cash Balance as at 01% January
Closing Cash Balance as at 31% December

3.4 Notes to the Financial Statements

These financial statements have been prepared
based on accepted accounting principles and
most appropriate accounting policies are used.
Figures in final account, relevant accounting

151,093,603 1,740,822
151,093,603 1,740,822
(5,646,247) (1,740,822)

notes & other accounting information are
compared with Treasury accounts and the same
is agreed with it.

3.5 Performance of the Revenue Collection

 

Table 3-1 Performance of the Revenue Collection

Revenue Estimate

Description of

Revenue
the Revenue

Code            Code           Original

Collected Revenue

as a % of
Final          Amount (Rs.) Final Revenue
Estimate

Nil Report

3.6 Performance of the Utilization of Allocation

 

Table 3-2 Performance of the Utilization of Allocation

Allocation
Type of Allocation               Original
Recurrent                                               677,150
Capital                                      25,100

Actual      oe    Allocation

Final          Expenditure    \Utilizstion as a %

of Final Allocation

677,150                630,012                        93
25,100                 17,775                        71

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

 


3.7 In terms of F.R.208 grant of allocations for expenditure to this Ministry as an agent of the
other Ministries / Departments

 

Table 3-3 Grant of allocations for expenditure to this Ministry as an agent of the other Ministries / Departments ~~ Rs. ,000
Allocation            Purpose                Allocation                                     Allocation
Serial Received from      of the                                                      Actual Utilization as
No. Which Ministry      Allocation         Original           Final Expenditure a % of Final
[Department                                                                                       Allocation
Ministry of              Payment of
Public Services, allowances
Provincial Council for the
oii Lcd              gredusie                 800             800                740                  03
Government          trainees
recruited
in the year
2019

3.8 Performance of the Reporting of Non-Financial Assets

 

Table 3-4 Performance of the Reporting of Non-Financial Assets

Balance as

per Board

Assets        Code Description              of Survey
Code

Report as at

31.12.2020

9151 Building and Structures                 26,824

9152 Machinery and Equipment           555,864

Balance as

per financial       Yet to be
Position

Report as at    Accounted

31.12.2020
26,824
555,864

Reporting
Progress
asa%

Image 3-1 Initial discussions for creating skilled foreign labour force

EJ           Ns

 


3.9 Auditor General's Report

Translated copy of the Summary Report of the Auditor General on the Financial Statements

of the Ministry of Labour in Sinhala language

SHS B® MOBIRD

Gara &HTHBTUIN] 2] SVINSVEBLD
NATIONAL AUDIT OFFICE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 

 

Seu gorda

ed come                              zs
STE Zi B50. }                             2 10g) ao. |                           BARE A }
My No.         LEEW/A/MOL/2/2020/6        Your No.                                      Date     2021 RICE

Chief Accounting Officer
Ministry of Labour

Summary Report of the Auditor General on the Financial Statements of the Ministry of

 

Labour for the year ended 31 December 2020 in terms of Section (11) (1) of the National
Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018.

 

 

1.        Financial Statements

 

1.1       Qualified Opinion

The audit of the financial statements of the Ministry of Labour for the year ended 31st December
2020 comprising the statement of financial position as at 31st December 2020 and the statement of
financial performance and cash flow statement for the year then ended was carried out under my
direction in pursuance of provisions in Article 154(1) of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka read in conjunction with provisions of the National Audit Act No. 19 of 2018.
My comments and observations on these financial statements, which are submitted to the Ministry
of Labour as per section 11 (1) of the National Audit Act No 19 of 2018, are included in this report.
The report of the Auditor General, which should be read in conjunction with Article 154 (6) of the
Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and to be submitted in terms of the

section 10 of the National Audit Act No 19 of 2018, will be tabled in the Parliament in due course.

In my opinion, except for the effects of the matters described in paragraph 1.6 of this report, the
accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Ministry of
Labour as at 31st December 2020, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year

then ended in accordance with recognized Accounting Standards.

 

LE J 72, @uaded ed, Anode. § cud Ge. 306/72, Guregmey olf, udsTapsime, @rmms No, 306/72, Polduwa Road, Battaramuila, Sci Lanka,
ren                            FEL
PER 494 11 288 7028-34           i= 194 1] 2887223               bes  ag@nditorgeneral,  ovlk
Li                             &          &     &

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

 


CBF HAMEBESNUIG] DIGHEHECSLD
NATIONAL AUDIT OFFICE

 

NAOSL

1.2       Basis for Qualified Opinion
My opinion is qualified on the matters described in paragraph 1.5 of this report.

| conducted my audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). My
responsibilities, under those standards are further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities for the
Audit of the Financial Statements section of my report. | believe that the audit evidence | have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my qualified opinion.

1.3      Responsibilities of Chief Accounting Officer in respect of the Financial Statements

Chief Accounting Officer is responsible for the preparation of financial statements that give a true
and fair view in compliance with the recognized Accounting Standards and provisions stipulated in
section 38 of the National Audit Act No. 19 of 2018, and for determining such internal control
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material

misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

As per Section 16(1) of the National Audit Act No. 19 of 2018, the Ministry is required to maintain
proper books and records of all its income, expenditure, assets and liabilities, to enable annual and
periodic financial statements to be prepared of the Ministry.

The Chief Accounting Officer should ensure that a productive internal control system is formulated
and maintained for the financial management of the Ministry as per sub section 38 (1) (c) of
National Audit Act and further necessary changes should also be made in order to maintain the
system productively conducting reviews from time to time regarding the effectiveness of the

aforesaid system.
1.4      Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

My objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report
that includes my opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards will always

detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


CBF HAMEBESNUIG] DIGHEHECSLD
NATIONAL AUDIT OFFICE

  

NAOSL

considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to

influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards, | exercise professional

judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. | also:

e Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain
audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. The risk of
not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the

override of internal control.

e Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an

opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control.

e Evaluate that transactions and events, which made the base for the structure and content of
financial statements containing disclosures are included in financial statements in an

appropriate and reasonable manner.

e Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including
the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and

events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

| make the Chief Accounting Officer aware of the significant audit findings, including any significant
deficiencies in internal control and other matters that | identified during my audit.

1.5.     Report on Other Legal Requirements

| hereby state following matters in terms of section 6 (1)(d) of the National Audit Act No. 19 of 2018.

a. The financial Statements are in consistent with the previous year, except for the following

instance.

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

 


1.6

1.6.1.

CBF HAMEBESNUIG] DIGHEHECSLD
NATIONAL AUDIT OFFICE

 

NAOSL

When the ending balances of the previous year in statement of financial position are
submitted as the reconciliations of the current year, the balances taken over from National
Productivity Secretariat have been added to the balances of the previous year but no

revelation has been made by the note to financial statements in this regard.

The recommendations, which have been made by me pertaining to the financial statements
relevant to the previous year, have been implemented.

Comments on financial statements

Statement of Financial Performance

 

1.6.1.1 Receipts, which are not income

Following observations are made in this regard.

a.

 

In accordance with the statement of financial performance, the amount of the imprest
received from the General Treasury under vote 193 and 054 for the Ministry has been
shown as Rs. 597,229,588 but it was observed at the audit that the receipts relevant to the
Ministry of Labour is Rs. 598,054,000 as per the printouts of the General Treasury.
Accordingly, a difference of Rs. 824,412 is observed in the receipt of imprest between the
statement of financial performance and printouts of General Treasury. Settlement of Rs.
693,138 by the Ministry of Labour during the year, which is the balance of imprest to be
received from the Department of Election and not been settled by the Ministry of Skill
Development and overstatement of the value of imprest released to the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs by Rs. 131,273 have caused for this difference.

When the receipt and payment of deposits are reconciled as per the statement of financial
performance and printouts of the General Treasury, Rs. 174,605 and Rs. 324,726 have

been overstated in the statement of financial performance respectively.

Advance B account

 

In terms of the para 14 of the Budget Circular No. 06/2020 dated 30" November 2020,
action should be taken to transfer the balances of loans taking in to consideration the staff

exchanged, when a part of the functions pertaining to a certain Ministry is entrusted to

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour


| BBA HAMESILS] Digyneslh
© NATIONAL AUDIT OFFICE

 

another Ministry. Accordingly, an amount of Rs. 40,851,695, which is the opening balance
of the advance B account of Productivity Secretariat taken over by the Ministry of Labour
on 01st September 2020 has not been included in the statement of financial performance
under payment of advances. However, these payments have been included in A.C.A. -5
statement and accordingly a difference of Rs. 40,851,695 has been observed between

A.C.A.-5 statement and statement of financial performance.

Il. ~~ When reconciling with final printed statements of General Treasury, receipt and payment

have been overstated by Rs. 2,980,639 in accounts statements and A.C.A.- 5 statement.

1.6.2 Statement of Financial Position

 

1.6.2.1 Non financial Assets

Following observations are made in this regard.

a. Even though the value of the non financial assets, which have been alienated by the
Ministry of Public Administration to the Ministry of Labour in relation to the National
Productivity Secretariat, is Rs. 55,305,211, non financial assets have been overstated in
statement of financial position by Rs. 28,961,319 due to taking over of Rs. 84,266,530,
which is the balance of ledger account, by the Ministry. Accordingly, the difference of the
non financial assets between statement of non financial assets shown in the form A.C.A. -6
included in financial statements and printouts of the General Treasury (SA-80) should be
Rs. 28,961,319, that difference has been shown as Rs. 18,973,067. Further, reasons for
such difference have not been submitted for the audit. Further, since the value of non
financial assets has been overstated in the statement of financial position by Rs.
18,973,067, the reserve of property, plant and equipment under net assets in statement of
financial position has also been overstated by the same amount.

b. The value of the acquisition of non financial assets during the year has been understated

by Rs. 50,930in the statement of non financial assets (A.C.A. -6) than the value of it

according to form A.C.A. 2 (i)

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


| BBA HAMESILS] Digyneslh
© NATIONAL AUDIT OFFICE

 

c. In terms of the guideline No 6 and 7 (v) of Public Finance Circular No. 02/2020, the
balance of the net assets shown under net assets and capital of statement of financial
position should be obtained by deducting the value of advance account of the Ministry from
the value of the deposits accounts. Accordingly, the value of Rs. 39,049,635 (55,524,372-
16,474,737) after deducting the value of deposits accounts from the value of advances of
the Ministry should be shown as net assets, but the amount of net assets shown in
statement of financial position is Rs. 38,779,611. Accordingly, the difference is Rs.
270,024. Therefore, it was observed that the value of net assets in the statement of

financial position has been understated by Rs. 270,024.

1.6.2.2. Financial Assets

Even though the unsettled balance of imprest shown in A.C.A. -3 statement as per treasury books
as at 31st December 2020 should be shown as the value of cash and cash equivalent under
financial assets in the statement of financial position, the balance of Rs. 270,024 shown as per
treasury notes has not been shown under financial assets. According to the answer made by the
Secretary for the draft of the report, the balance of the imprest is a balance which should be settled

by the Ministry to the Ministry of Foreign Employment.

1.6.3. Balance of the Imprest Account

 

Even though the net amount of imprest released to the Ministry of Foreign Employment is Rs.
61,630,129 as per A.C.A -3 statement, the correct balance is Rs. 61,498,856. Therefore, the
imprest released to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been overstated by Rs. 131,274. Further, the
balance relevant to the Ministry of Labour under balance of sub imprest under balance of imprest
as at 31st December 2020 in A.C.A- 3 statement has been shown as Rs. 270,024 but it was

observed that balance should be Rs. 138,750 as per the calculations made accurately.

1.6.4. Cash Flow Statement

 

1.6.4.1 Cash flow generated from operational activities

Following observation are made in this regard.

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


| CBHI BEENESTUS] DieaessLD
© NATIONAL AUDIT OFFICE

 

a. Receipts from the General Treasury
Even though the imprest of Rs. 628,654,806, which has been received from the General
Treasury during the year, should be shown in the cash flow statement as the imprest, Rs.
628,523,532 has been shown as the receipt of imprest. Accordingly, it was observed during
the audit that the receipt of imprest has been understated in the cash flow statement by Rs.
131,274.

b. Recurrent Expenditure
Even though an amount of Rs. 623,295,556 has been shown in the cash flow statement as
wages and salaries of persons, operational expenses, subsidies and transfers born by the
Ministry for the year under the vote no. 054 and 193, the expenditure as per the trial
balance and A.C.A 2 (ii) statements of expenditure is Rs. 621,217,511. Accordingly, a
difference of Rs. 2,078,045 has been observed in wages and salaries of persons,
operational expenses, subsidies and transfers between the trial balance and cash flow

statement.

1.6.4.2 Cash Flow Generated by Investment Activities

Following observations are made in this regard.

c. Capital Expenditure
The amount, which has been spent during the year for the construction or purchase of
physical assets, and acquisition of other investments, has been shown as Rs. 6,788,450 in
the cash flow statement. An amount of Rs. 5,429,776, which is the value of the assets
transferred from the Office of the Commissioner for Workmen's" Compensation, has also
been included in this. However, this expenditure is Rs. 2,078,047 as per head no 054 and
193, the trial balance. Accordingly, a difference of Rs. 4,710,403 has been observed.

1.6.5 Reporting expenditure for the year 2020
The vote 193, Ministry of Labour has been initiated with the notification published by the Gazette

Extraordinary on 8th August 2020 by H. E. the President. As per the above mentioned instructions,

an expenditure of Rs. 388.8 million, which has been spent under 89 objects of vote no 054 of

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


| BBA HAMESILS] Digyneslh
© NATIONAL AUDIT OFFICE

 

Ministry, which was existed then, for the period from January 2020 to 31st August 2020, has been
accounted as the expenditure of the Ministry under vote 193.

The receipts of imprest from the General Treasury and their settlement have been made under the
imprest account number of the Ministry existed at that time. Even though an amount of Rs. 628.5
million has been shown in the imprest account statement as the receipt of imprest from General
Treasury under aforesaid account number, Rs. 241.7 million has been received from General
Treasury as the imprest from 01st September 2020 up to the end of the year since functions of the
Ministry (vote no 193) has been carried out from the above date, and Rs. 30.6 million out of the

above has been settled in cash to General Treasury as at 31st December 2020.

1.6.6 Lack of evidence for the audit

Following observations are made in this regard.
Evidences to verify the value of assets of Rs. 5,429,776, which has been transferred from other
institutes shown in the statement of non financial assets included in the accounts statements, have

not been submitted for the audit.

2.       Financial Review

 

21        Management of expenses

Following observations are made in this regard.

a. An amount of Rs. 6,875,341 i.e. 49.6% out of the provision of Rs. 13,850,000 which has
been allocated for 7 capital objects was remaining unspent. The amount remaining unspent

from the provision allocated for the objects was at the range between 16% to 100%.

b. An amount of Rs. 24,921,437 i.e. 18.5% out of the provision of Rs. 134,724,000 which has
been allocated for 22 recurrent objects was remaining unspent. The amount remaining

unspent from the provision allocated for the objects was at the range between 13% to
100%.

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


| CBHI BEENESTUS] DieaessLD
> © NATIONAL AUDIT OFFICE

 

2.2      Making liabilities and obligations

The facts revealed at the examination made on the register of liabilities, balances of liabilities in
financial statements for year 2020 and the liabilities reported to the General Treasury on 31st

December 2020, are given below.

a. An amount of Rs. 969,410 has been overstated in financial statements as at 31st

December 2020 than the liabilities shown in treasury entries (SA-92).

b. In terms of the 3.4 of the guidelines no 06 of Public Finance Circular No 02/2020 dated 28th
August 2020, any liability or obligation, which has not been reported to the General
Treasury should not be settled during the year 2021, action has been taken to settle during
the year, the liabilities to the value of Rs. 706,983 in relation to 17 events not reported so to
General Treasury. Further the liabilities to the value of Rs. 91,501, which has been
recorded in the General Treasury as at 31 December 2020, has not been shown in the

financial statements.

c. Interms of F. R. 94, any expense or liability should not be made if financial provisions are
not available in the annual estimates, and the expenses made for such matters should not
exceed the provision. However, during the year under review, the Ministry has made

obligations to the value of Rs. 533,965 exceeding the provisions.

d. An amount of liabilities to the value of Rs. 117,719, which has not been included in the

statement of liabilities and obligations for year 2020, has been settled during year 2021.
2.3      Non compliance with laws, rules and regulations
Even though the citizen / client charter should be prepared in terms of the specimen indicated in the

Public Administration Circular No. 2008/05 dated 06th February 2008, no citizen / client charter has

been prepared by the Ministry for year 2020 as per the circular.

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


| BBA HAMESILS] Digyneslh
© NATIONAL AUDIT OFFICE

 

24        Improper Transactions

Certain transactions which have been made by the Ministry are not in the proper manner. Several

instances, which have been observed in this regard, are mentioned below.
a. The editing software, ‘which is compatible to the Sony Camera PXW-Z 150 bought in year
2018 at the cost of Rs. 1,625,781, has not been purchased even by the end of the year

under review.

b. A Sony HXR NX 5P video camera, of which the cost is Rs. 535,695, has been sent to the
mother company in Singapore for repairing without obtaining procurement approval.
However, that camera has been brought back to the country as approval for procurement
has not been given for the estimated value. It has to pay Rs. 15,000 for the transport and
further the estimate to the value of Rs. 261,000 (Nearly equivalent to 48% of the current
price of the camera), which has been sent by the mother company in Singapore for the
repair, has been submitted to the procurement committee on 02nd December 2019 but this
camera has not been brought back to the Ministry even by 30 March 2021

2.5.      Deposits

Following observations are made in this regard.

a. A balance of Rs. 6,837,248 out of the compensation recovered from employers by the
office of the Commissioner for workmen's Compensation pertaining to fatal and non fatal
accidents was remaining unsettled by 31st December 2021. It has become impossible to
pay these compensations due to reasons such as the unavailability of accurate information
on the employees and their dependents, deficiencies in the documents relevant to the
payment of compensation to beneficiaries, and non submission of such particulars to the

office etc. and the time range of the delay varied form 05 months to 04 years.

b. There were 48 case files relevant to 08 courts, for which warrants have been issued due to
avoid the payment of compensation and further it was observed that the amount of
compensation, which could not be recovered even by 31st December 2020, was relevant to
a period from 04 to 24 years. It was observed that the compensation to be recovered was
Rs. 12,988,494.

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

 


| BBA HAMESILS] Digyneslh
> © NATIONAL AUDIT OFFICE

 

c. Even though deposits are made at the Office of the Commissioner for Workmen's
Compensation, separate accounts have been maintained under the name of Commissioner
for Workmen’s Compensation at National Savings Bank without distributing the
compensation as the real dependents cannot be found and it was revealed that the amount
deposited in the accounts was Rs. 2,023,095 as at 31st December 2020.

d. Even though the compensation, which is entitled to the minors of the employees demised
due to fatal accidents whilst in duty were, should be granted to them at the time of their
maturity, there were 534 accounts by 31st December 2020 to which benefits have not been
released by 31st December on completion of the required age. The value of these
compensations is Rs. 20,861,229. This amount consists of 459 accounts to the value of
Rs. 11,782,761, which were become mature in year 2016, and further 66 accounts matured
in year 2020 to the value of Rs. 8,563,187.

3.       Operational Review
3.1      Damages and Losses

Investigations have not been concluded as per financial regulation no 104 even by 31st December

2020 in respect of 04 vehicle accidents, which have occurred during year 2019 and 2020.

3.2       Management Inefficiencies

Following observations are made in this regard.

a. Since a proper process has not been prepared to recommend applications adhering to the
instructions given by the letter of the Director of National Budget No BD/GPS/JS/2/14-2015
dated 18h August 2016 in order to implement the proposals for granting relief to July
Strikers under budget proposals of 2016, actions such as recommending applications of
persons, who receive pension, recommending applications of persons who received
benefits and recommending applications along with the affidavits, which cannot be
accepted, have been carried out. Until December 2020 this process has not been applied
in proper manner. As a result of not maintaining properly the process for recommending

applications, it was observed at the sample audit test that the application of one and the

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


   

CBF HAMEBESNUIG] DIGHEHECSLD
NATIONAL AUDIT OFFICE

 

NAOSL

same person has been recommended twice and therefore Rs. 1,000,000 has been

overpaid for 4 persons.

Even though the productivity competition has been conducted and then awarding
ceremony has been conducted selecting institutions, which is one of the main objectives of
National Productivity Secretariat, spending Rs. 59.1 million for 3 competitions from year
2014 to 2018, follow up action has not been carried out even by the end of the year under
review to verify whether such institutions, which won awards, maintain that situation

continuously.

Mobile services have been conducted with a view to ensure more efficient service delivery
to employers and employees by conducting all the programmes conducted by institutions
affiliated to the Ministry during one and the same period and in one district. According to
the observation made in the analysis of particulars for the past 05 years, nearly 08 mobile
services have been conducted i.e. 04 in Badulla district, 03 in Rathnapura district, and 01

in Colombo district.

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour


CBF HAMEBESNUIG] DIGHEHECSLD
NATIONAL AUDIT OFFICE

  

NAOSL

4        Human Resources Development

4.1       Attached staff and actual staff and expenditure for wages and salaries

Particulars pertaining to the approved cadre, actual staff, vacancies and staff in excess as at 31st

December of the year under review are given below.

Category                               Approved        Actual Staff Number of vacancies
of employees                         Cadre

i. Senior level                     23               15               08

ii. Tertiary level                     04                 03                 01

iii. Secondary level               75               47               28

iv. Primary level                 34              27              07

v. Other (Casual / temporary / 02                  01                  01

contract basis)

Total                                   138                93                  45

T.G.l. Padmini

Assistant Auditor General
For Auditor General

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

 


i
———

SEED ay

 

 

 


 

CHAPTER FOUR

Performance Indicators

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


Performance Indicators of the Ministry

 

Table 4-1 Performance indicators of the Ministry (based on the action plan)

Specific                                 Actual output as a percentage

Indicators

Number of law imposed / amended to ensure the rights of

100% - 90%

of expected output (%)
75%-89%  50%- 74%

01               .                                                       01         03         08
employees
Number of reports made for the ratified conventions of the       0

02           :                   LL                                   100%
International Labour Organization
Number of the policy decisions, which have been made in

03          .                                06
order to enhance industrial peace
Percentage of the labour inspections which were proved

04 as at higher level (A and B) by the total labour inspections             79%
conducted within the year

05    Numbers of the labour inspections conducted as a percentage                               570) **
of the number of inspections which have been targeted                                         °
Number of the investigations concluded on child labour as a                  0

06                                          79%
percentage of the number of complaints received
Number of the Social Dialogue programmes conducted as a                             0

07                                                                                            70%
percentage of the target

08   Payment of the benefits of Employees’ Provident Fund as a                        68%
percentage                                                                                 °
Number of the Safety Officers, who have been introduced for                    0

09                    )                                                                                      78%
the occupational safety and health of employees
Number of the courses conducted for the awareness on labour            0

10                                                                     100%
laws of the work force
Number of cases concluded on occupational accidents

11 (Fatal as well as non fatal) out of the cases which were to be                              61%
concluded
Number of persons who were given training and education on         0

12                                       95%
productivity concepts

Note                                                                        **- It has become difficult to conduct the target number of

*- Since these activities are carried out depending on the
requirement, the final output is not specified. Therefore,
itis not possible to present information as a percentage.

   

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

labour inspections as it has to stop totally and to limit
the field inspections in certain months in the face of
the situation arisen due to COVID - 19 pandemic.


 

CHAPTER FIVE

Performance of the achieving Sustainable
Development Goals (SDG)

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


 

Ministry of Labour

Annual Performance Report 2020

5.1

Identified Respective Sustainable Developments Goals

Table 5-1 Sustainable Development Goals relevant to the Ministry

Goal / Objective

01

05

End poverty
in all its
forms
everywhere

Achieve
gender
equality and
empower all
women and
girls

Targets

1.1 By 2030, eradicate extreme 1.1.1
poverty for all people
everywhere,     currently
measured as people living
on less than $1.25 a day

Implement      nationally
appropriate social protection
systems and measures for
all, including floors, and by
2030 achieve substantial
coverage of the poor and the
vulnerable

End      all
discrimination
all women
everywhere

Eliminate all forms of
violence against all women
and girls in the public and
private spheres, including
trafficking and sexual and
other types of exploitation

Adopt and strengthen sound
policies and enforceable
legislation for the promotion
of gender equality and the
empowerment of all women
and girls at all levels

1.3                          1.3.1

5.1                       forms      of 5.1.1

against
and girls

52                                                  5.2.1

5%                                            5.c.1

Indicators of the achievement

Proportion of the population living
below the international poverty line
by sex, age, employment status and
geographic location (urban / rural)

Proportion of population covered by
social protection floors / systems, by
sex, distinguishing children, unemployed
persons, older persons, persons with
disabilities, pregnant women, new-borns,
work-injury victims and the poor and the
vulnerable

Whether or not legal frameworks are in
place to promote, enforce and monitor
equality and non-discrimination on the
basis of sex

Proportion of ever-partnered women and
girls aged 15 years and older subjected
to physical, sexual or psychological
violence by a current or former intimate
partner in the previous 12 months, by
form of violence and by age

Proportion of countries with systems
to track and make public allocations
for gender equality and women’s
empowerment

 

Progress of the achievement to date

Taking initiatives for the amendment of National Minimum
Wages Act in order to increase the minimum monthly salary
of the employees in the private sector, Rs. 10,000/- which was
existing, by Rs. 2,500/-

The number of the persons covered by the Employees
Provident Fund is 2.91 million (Active membership)

A series of Group Investigation has been conducted covering
all over the country in order to verify whether the maternity
leave and breast feeding time are granted to women serving
in various institutions in private sector with parallel to the
International Women’s Day - 2020

Taking action pertaining to 23 complaints received to Women
and Child Affairs Division of the Dept. of Labour on the service
conditions of women and concluding 06 investigations
Conducting special investigations on women workers covering
607 institutions

Conducting two awareness programmes by the Dept. of
Labour to the staff of executive grade of the Department of
Fisheries and Aquatic Resources, Students of the final year in
the Faculty of Management of the University of Colombo on
the laws applicable to women and children


 

Ministry of Labour

Annual Performance Report 2020

08 Promote
sustained,
inclusive and
sustainable
economic
growth,
full and
productive
employment
and decent
work for all

8.5 By 2030, achieve full and 8.5.1 Average hourly earnings of employees,

8.7

8.8

productive employment and
decent work for all women
and men,
young people and persons
with disabilities, and equal
pay for work of equal value

Take immediate and effective
measures to eradicate forced
labour, end modern slavery
and human trafficking and
secure the prohibition and
elimination of the worst forms
of child labour, including
recruitment and use of child
soldiers, and by 2025 end
child labour in all its forms

Protect labour rights and
promote safe and secure
working environments for all

workers, including migrant g.g.2

workers, in particular
women migrants, and those
in precarious employment

including for 852

8.7.1

8.8.1

by sex, age, occupation and persons
with disabilities

Unemployment rate, by sex, age and
persons with disabilities

Proportion and number of children aged
5 - 17 years engaged in child labour, by
sex and age

Fatal and non-fatal occupational
injuries per 100,000 workers, by sex
and migrant status

Level of national compliance with
labour rights (freedom of association
and collective bargaining) based on
International Labour Organization (ILO)
textual sources and national legislation,
by sex and migrant status

The average income of an hour of the employees serving in
private and semi government sector as per labour laws does
not vary depending on the occupation, age and the disability
of a certain person etc.

In terms of the Child Activity Survey — 2016, child labour of the
country is 1% and therefore action is now being taken to bring
it to zero level

Even though fatal and non-fatal accidents connected to
occupations are reported further action is being taken to
maintain reports in relation to the gender and mobility

Freedom for association and bargaining is ensured and
accordingly the number of trade unions registered in the
country as at 31.12.2020 is 1,843.

Further, action has been taken to submit the reports pertaining
to the annual reports on the conventions relevant to collective
rights for association and bargaining (C98) and (C87) before
the due date. It is mentioned in the observation report of ILO
that the weaknesses of the report are at the minimum level


[ HEE

5.2 Achievements and challenges in
the fulfillment of the Sustainable

Development Goals

Sri Lanka expects to reach a highly satisfactory
level by year 2030 in the achievement of
sustainable development goals. Accordingly,
Sustainable Development Council should
determine indicators in relation to Sri Lanka and
then introduce the data and the targets based
on the indicators for each Ministry. For this
purpose, the Sustainable Development Council
has drafted the national policy and strategies for
the sustainable development and accordingly
observations have been called from our Ministry.
Then the Council should prepare the final draft
and it should be submitted to the Ministries
for implementation after obtaining approval of
the Cabinet of Ministries. Until such time, this
Ministry carries out activities in order to achieve
sustainable development goals in relation to the
scope of the Ministry. The indicators identified
are mentioned above.

The main sustainable development goal relevant
to this Ministry is to achieve the objective No. 08
of Sustainable Development Goals, i.e. “Promote
sustained inclusive and sustainable economic
growth, full and productive employment and
decent work for all. Further, sustainable
development objectives have been identified
relevant to each activity of the Action Plan of
the Ministry. Specially, all the functions, which
are performed by the Department of Labour, are
relevant for the establishment of decent work
place, which is the No. 08 of main sustainable
development goal relevant to this Ministry.

Even though, all information should be
categorized as per gender, no such categorization
has been made so far under our process and
therefore necessary actions in this regard should
be taken in future. Further, it is required to collect
information on the differently abled people.

However, it has become difficult to achieve the
relevant goals pertaining to the target tasks due
to the COVID - 19 pandemic in year 2020.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mage 5  ; 1 diy with the representatives 1] fhe World Health Organisation  4

Xi

 


 

CHAPTER SIX

Human Resource Profile

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


6.1 Cadre Management

 

Table 6-1 Staff details of the Ministry

 

Senior level              Tertiary level           Secondary level           Primary level                          Total

Percent-
age of the
vacancies

01 Ministry Office     23    15    04    03    75    46    35    27   137   91    34%
02 Dept. of Labour    211    131    668   494   1,756   1,483   489   436   3,124  2,544    19%

National Institute                  09                  03                  13                  04                  18                  07                  05                  02                  45                16                 64%
03 of Labour
Studies

National Institute          07          02          03          02          10          08          05          05          25         17          32%
of Occupational

Safety and

Health

Office of the                    05             02             02             01              31              27             05             03             43            33             23%
Commissioner
for Workmen's
Compensation

National                         17             08             04             03           792           655             19             11            832          677             19%
06 Productivity
Secretariat

Total                                  272              161               694              507           2,682           2,226              558              484           4,206         3,378                20%

Institution ~~ Approved Existing Approved Existing Approved Existing Approved Existing Approved Existing
Cadre  Cadre  Cadre  Cadre  Cadre  Cadre  Cadre  Cadre  Cadre  Cadre

Ministry of Labour

Annual Performance Report 2020

04

05


6.2 Effect of the shortage or excess in
human resources on the performance
of the Ministry

The shortage in the human resources of the
Ministry and affiliated institutes are as follows.

arisen due to the dearth of officers in executive
grades in the occasions such as taking decisions
in the hierarchy, acceptance of responsibilities
like financial authority, facilitating and formalizing
the directions etc. Under such circumstances,
the officers are affected physically as well as

mentally and therefore the optimum efficiency

+ Senior Level                                  11                           cannot be ensured from the officers. This situation

+ Tertiary Level                      187                   makes adverse effect to the overall performance

+ Secondary Level               456                of the Ministry and it is observed that there is a

* Primary Level                     74                 possibility for the decline in the efficiency of the
Total                                828                   Ministry.

The officers are compelled to perform the duties
of the vacant posts in addition to the duties of
their substantive posts due to the shortage of
human resources. Specially, practical issues are

6.3 Human Resource Development

6.3.1 Participation in the local training
courses

 

Table 6-2 Participation of officers in local training courses
Number

S.     Name of the       of the       piration     .  [ol        Output / knowledge
of the           investment                        .
No.      programme      employees                                                  gained
.           programme        (Rs.)
trained
Ministry Office
sins or          SEER
01 leave of public             1            06 Hours          8,500.00 Peraning           J
                                                                                    more efficiently and
officers
accurately
Skill develooment                                                      Performing the duties
02      ne       P               8            12 Hours         40,000.00 pertaining to the subject more
of Drivers                                                                  i»
efficiently and accurately
:                                                                        Performing the duties
03   ee Ruse              3            06 Hours                   - pertaining to the subject more

efficiently and accurately

Tamil language                                                           Training for speaking in

04 (Special training        1         50 Hours       9,775.00 Tamil language
for speaking )
Preparation of the                                                     Performing the duties
05 salaries of public       :         06 Hours       4,000.00  Sich He Lk
olicers                                                                           more efficiently an
accurately
Maintaining 2                                                                Performing the duties
06 personal fieinthe 3        04hours 12,000.00  Sich He Lk
roper way                                                                      more efficiently an
:                                                   accurately

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


07

08

09

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

Awareness
programme for the
public officers on
the provisions of
the Establishments
Code

Professional
Networking
Programme

Induction training

Department of Labour

Training
programme for
newly appointed
Dev. Officers and
P.M.A. officers

Workshop
conducted under
the sponsorship of
Hon. Minister for
Arbitrators

Access Control
System Workshop

Internet literacy
and usage of
social media
for Government
Librarians

Preparation of
salaries of Public
Officers

Making answers
for audit queries

Duties connecting
to the recruitments
of public service

Annual Performance Report 2020

   Ministry of Labour

   

10

97

78

01

02

02

03

01

12 hours

12 hours

16 hours

05 days

01 day

01 day

01 day

01 day

03 days

02 days

31,000.00

19,240.00

103,800.00

72,870.00

6,000.00

4,000.00

8,000.00

30,000.00

8,000.00

Performing the duties
pertaining to the subject
more efficiently and
accurately

Performing the duties
pertaining to the subject
more efficiently and
accurately

Introduction to the Ministry,
Establishments Code, Office
Systems, File Management,
enhancement of the
productivity in the office

Providing training to newly
appointed officers

Enhancing knowledge on the
role of Arbitrator

Enhancing the knowledge of
officers

Enhancing the knowledge of
officers

Making salary conversions
of the officers of the
Department accurately

Enhancing the knowledge

of the officers for sending
answers properly to the audit
queries

Enhancing the knowledge

of the officers on duties
connected to recruitments


17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

27

28

29

30

Procurement
Procedure

Master of Arts
Degree in Social
Science

Post Graduate in
Law

Post Graduate
Course on
Development
Studies

Human Resources
Development

Public
Administration and
Management

Post Graduate
Degree in Labour
Relations and
Human Resources
Management
Training
programmes
conducted

for officers on
Employees’
Provident Fund
Training Worksop
on arbitration of
disputes (Online)

01

01

01

01

01

07

01

68

40

02 days

10 days

National Institute of Labour Studies

Labour Laws and
Labour Relations

Office
Management
and Financial
Regulations

Answers for audit
queries

Filing Methods

02

01

04

12 months

02 days

03 days

01 days

8,000.00

Local

Local

Local

Local

Local

Local

Local

Local

96,000.00

8,000.00

20,000.00

Enhancing knowledge of
officers for the implementation
of procurement procedure
accurately

Master of Arts Degree in
Social Science

Post Graduate in Law

Post Graduate Course on
Development Studies

Human Resources
Development

Public Administration and
Management

Post Graduate Degree
in Labour Relations
and Human Resources
Management

Enhancing the Knowledge
on Employees’ Provident
Fund

Enhancing the Knowledge
on arbitration of disputes

Enhancing the knowledge of
officers on Labour Laws and
Labour Relations

Enhancing the knowledge
of officers on Office
Management and Financial
Regulations

Enhancing the capacity of
officers for answering audit
queries

Enhancing the knowledge of
officers on filing methods

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


Name of the
programme

Training on the
Lead Assessor's
Course for APO
Accredited
Certification
Bodies (APO)

Global Dialogue
Forum on Decent
Wok in the World
of Sport

Technical
Meeting      on
Achieving Decent
Work in Global
Supply Chains

10" ADBI-OECD-
ILO Roundtable
on     Labour
Migration    in
Asia - Future of
Migration

Global ~~ Forum
on Migration &
Development
Summit -2019

Strategic HRM for
Organizational
Excellence

Ministry of Labour

  

persons
trained

01

02

01

01

01

01

Annual Performance Report 2020

Table 6-3 Participation of officers in foreign training courses

Number
of the

Duration

of the

course

07 days

03 days

04 days

02 days

05 days

06 days

6.3.2 Participation in the foreign training courses

Total investment

Local Foreign
v
v
v
v
v
v

 

Output / knowledge gained

Knowledge on APO Accredited
Certification Schemes

Knowledge on current emerging
issues related to promotion of
Decent Work in the world sports

Knowledge on the failures &
salient challenges of governance
to achieving decent work in global
supply chains and new initiatives
to promote decent work in global
supply chain

Knowledge on recent main
trends in Asian Migration and
how to remittance flows been
attached by changing labour
market & opportunities in
destination economies

Knowledge on sustainable
approaches to Human mobility
upholding rights, strengthening
state agency and advancing
development      through
partnerships and collective action

Knowledge        on        Human

Resourses Management


The International
Tripartite Meeting
on ‘Supporting
Grass   Roots
7   Activities through 01
the International
Employer's and
Worker's Network
(SGRA)

Environment
8   Audit         01

ISSA Technical
Seminar   on
Digitalization ~~ -
New Forms of

2  Work: Focusing 2
on Occupational
Risk Registration

and Programme

02 days

25 days

03 days

6.3.3 Contribution of the training programmes
of the Ministry

There are several objectives, which are to be
achieved through the training programmes
provided to the officers of the Ministry. Capacity
development and human resource development
of officers are significant in this regard. These
training prograammes are much helpful to
enhance the productivity of the officers inducing
them to apply new media and technology for their
duties using limited provisions and resources.
Further, the attitude development of officers
and enhancement of language skills of officers
will help them to ensure close service to the
general public and it helps further to establish

v

Shared acheivenments and
experiences of JILAF projects
in Thailand, Nepal, Bangladesh,
v      Laos, Vietnam, Sri Lanka and
Cambodia and had discussions
on challenges towards future
dissemination with this region

v          Knowledge on Enviroment Audit

Knowledge on work injury,
prevention,            collection,
contribution and compliance

interpersonal relationships. Common objective of
these programmes is to create a well experienced
group of officers directing them to training
opportunities identified by a systemic study.

Planning of the training programmes has been
made under following main components.
* Induction training
« Training on leadership and attitude
development
Subject related training

Particulars of the training conducted to the officers
under relevant components are mentioned above
and training programmes could not be conducted in
the expected manner due to COVID - 19 pandemic.

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


 


 

CHAPTER SEVEN

Compliance Report

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

 


LE CIC MOeln [of [ET Tel a{eTo lol

Corrective
Compliance           Brief            actions
.               .                           Status          explanation      roposed to
No.             Applicable Requirement            (Complied / Not      i Non       on non-
Complied)       Compliance compliance
in future
01    The following financial statements /
accounts have been submitted on due date
1.1 Annual financial statements                         Complied
1.2 Advance to public officers account                Complied
Trading and Manufacturing Advance
13    i (Commercial i Accounts)      Not Relevant
1.4 Stores Advance Accounts                                  Not Relevant
1.5 Special Advance Accounts                                 Not Relevant
1.6 Others
02    ER of books and registers           Complied

Fixed assets register has been maintained
2.1 and update in terms of Public Administration         Complied
Circular 267/2018
Personal emoluments register / Personal
2.2 emoluments cards has been maintained    Complied
and update
Register of Audit queries has been
maintained and update
Register of Internal Audit reports has been
maintained and update
All the monthly account summaries
2.5 (CIGAS) are prepared and submitted to the       Complied
Treasury on due date
Register for cheques and money orders

2.3                                                                    Complied

2.4                                                                    Complied

26   has been maintained and update                Complied

97   Inventory register has been maintained     Complied
and update

28   Stocks Register has been maintained and     Complied
update

29  Register of Losses has been maintained    Complied
and update

210   Commitment Register has been maintained       Complicd
and update

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


2.11

03

3.1

3.2

33

34

04
4.1
4.2

4.3

4.4

4.5
05
5.1
06

6.1

6.2

6.3

6.4

Register of Counterfoil Books (GA — N20)
has been maintained and update
Delegation of functions for financial
control (FR 135)

The financial authority has been delegated
within the institute

The delegation of financial authority has
been communicated within the institute
The authority has been delegated in such
manner so as to pass each transaction
through two or more officers

The controls has been adhered to by the
Accountants in terms of State Account
Circular 171/2004 dated 11.05.2014 in
using the Government Payroll Software
Package

Preparation of Annual Plans

The annual action plan has been prepared
The annual procurement plan has been prepared
The annual Internal Audit plan has been
prepared

The annual estimate has been prepared
and submitted to the NBD on due date
The annual cash flow has been submitted to
the Treasury Operations Department on time
Audit queries

All the audit queries has been replied within
the specified time by the Auditor General
Internal Audit

The internal audit plan has been prepared
at the beginning of the year after consulting
the Auditor General in terms of Financial
Regulation 134(2)) DMA/1-2019

All the internal audit reports has been
replied within one month

Copies of all the internal audit reports has
been submitted to the Management Audit
Department in terms of Sub-section 40(4)
of the National Audit Act No. 19 of 2018

All the copies of internal audit reports has
been submitted to the Auditor General in
terms of Financial Regulation 134(3)

Complied
Complied
Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied
Complied
Complied

Complied
Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


07 Audit and Management Committee

Minimum 04 meetings of the Audit and
7.1 Management Committee has been held during         Complied
the year as per the DMA Circular 1-2019

08 Asset Management

The information about purchases of assets and

8.1   disposals was submitted to the Comptroller

"General's Office in terms of Paragraph 07 of
the Asset Management Circular No. 01/2017

A suitable liaison officer was appointed
to coordinate the implementation of the
8.2  provisions of the circular and the details
= of the nominated officer was sent to the     Complied
Comptroller General's Office in terms of
Paragraph 13 of the aforesaid circular

The boards of survey was conducted
8.3   and the relevant reports submitted to the

Complied

Auditor General on due date in terms of    Complied
Public Finance Circular No. 05/2016
The excesses and deficits that were disclosed
through the board of survey and other relating                 :
£4   recommendations, actions were carried out     Complied
during the period specified in the circular
The disposal of condemn articles had been               :
8:5    carried out in terms of FR 772                       Complied
09 Vehicle Management
The daily running charts and monthly
summaries of the pool vehicles had been           :
Bf   prepared and submitted to the Auditor     Complied
General on due date
The condemned vehicles had been                   + Obtaining      Immediate
disposed of within a period of less than 6                    estimate from actions to
months after condemning                                                   the local agent be taken to
onrepairing dispose the
the vehicle        vehicles
* Inform the
Office of the
Comptroller
General on
:       disposal of
9.2                                                                      Not Complied        the vehicle in
writing
* Performing
as per the
instructions to
be received
from the
Office of the
Comptroller
General

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


9.3

94

95

9.6

10
10.1

10.2

10.3

11
11.1

11.2

12

12.1
12.2

12.3

13
13.1

13.2

The vehicle logbooks had been maintained
and updated

The action has been taken in terms of F.R.
103, 104, 109 and 110 with regard to every
vehicle accident

The fuel consumption of vehicles has
been re-tested in terms of the provisions of
Paragraph 3.1 of the Public Administration
Circular No. 30/2016 of 29.12.2016

The absolute ownership of the leased
vehicle log books has been transferred
after the lease term

Management of Bank Accounts

The bank reconciliation statements had
been prepared, got certified and made
ready for audit by the due date

The dormant accounts that had existed in
the year under review or since previous
years settled

The action had been taken in terms of
Financial Regulations regarding balances
that had been disclosed through bank
reconciliation statements and for which
adjustments had to be made, and had those
balances been settled within one month
Utilization of Provisions

The provisions allocated had been spent
without exceeding the limit

The liabilities not exceeding the provisions
that remained at the end of the year as per
the FR 94(1)

Advances to Public Officers Account
The limits had been complied with

Atime analysis had been carried out on the
loans in arrears

The loan balances in arrears for over one
year had been settled

General Deposit Account

The action had been taken as per F.R.571
in relation to disposal of lapsed deposits
The control register for general deposits
had been updated and maintained

Complied
Complied
Complied
No leased
:        vehicles
NoGomaiied     belongs to the
Ministry
Complied

Not Complied       Not relevant

Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied
Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   


14
14.1

14.2

14.3

14.4

15
15.1

15.2

15.3
16
16.1

16.2

16.3

17

17.1

17.2

17.3

Imprest Account

The balance in the cash book at the end of
the year under review remitted to TOD

The ad-hoc sub imprests issued as per
F.R. 371 settled within one month from the
completion of the task

The ad-hoc sub imprests had not been
issued exceeding the limit approved as per
FR. 371

The balance of the imprest account had
been reconciled with the Treasury books
monthly

Revenue Account

The refunds from the revenue had been
made in terms of the regulations

The revenue collection had been directly
credited to the revenue account without
credited to the deposit account

Returns of arrears of revenue forward to
the Auditor General in terms of FR 176

Human Resource Management

The staff had been paid within the approved
cadre

All members of the staff have been issued
a duty list in writing

All reports have been submitted to MSD in
terms of their circular No. 04/2017 dated
20.09.2017

Provision of information to the public

An information officer has been appointed
and a proper register of information is
maintained and updated in terms of Right
To Information Act and Regulation

Information about the institution to the
public have been provided by Website
or alternative measures and has it been
facilitated to appreciate / allegation to
public against the public authority by this
website or alternative measures

Bi- Annual and Annual reports have been

submitted as per section 08 and 10 of the
RTI Act

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

   

Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied


18

18.1

18.2

19

19.1

19.2

19.3

19.4

20

20.1

Implementing citizens charter

A citizens charter / Citizens client's charter
has been formulated and implemented
by the Institution in terms of the circular
number 05/2008 and 05/2018(1) of Ministry
of Public Administration and Management

A methodology has been devised by the
Institution in order to monitor and assess
the formulation and the implementation of
Citizens Charter / Citizens client's charter
as per paragraph 2.3 of the circular

Preparation of the Human Resource Plan

A human resource plan has been prepared
in terms of the format in Annexure 02 of
Public Administration Circular No.02/2018
dated 24.01.2018

A minimum training opportunity of not less
than 12 hours per year for each member of
the staff has been ensured in the aforesaid
Human Resource Plan

Annual performance agreements have
been signed for the entire staff based on
the format in Annexure 01 of the aforesaid
Circular

A senior officer was appointed and
assigned the responsibility of preparing
the human resource development plan,
organizing capacity building programs and
conducting skill development programs
as per paragraph No.6.5 of the aforesaid
Circular

Responses Audit Paras

The shortcomings pointed out in the audit
paragraphs issued by the Auditor General
for the previous years have been rectified

Complied

Complied

Complied

Complied

Not Complied

Complied

Complied

Actions are being taken to

Annual Performance Report 2020
Ministry of Labour

sign annual performance
agreements for the entire staff

   


Compiled by
Planning, Research and Development Division

Publication

June 2021

Ministry of Labour

7" Floor, “Mehewara Piyesa”
Nerahenpita

Colombo 05

Tp: 0112 581 991

Artworks by

Ms. Lathika Hapuarachchi

Assistant Director, Ministry of Environment

Mr. BL Rohana Jayaweera

Management Service Officer, Ministry of Labour

Printed by
Printec Establishment (Pvt) Ltd - 0112 815 816

 


