 

STANDING ORDERS

OF THE

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

These new Standing Orders were approved and adopted
by Parliament on 07 March 2018, and to be effective from
15 April 2018.

 

Published by the Parliament Secretariat


STANDING ORDERS

OF THE

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

These new Standing Orders were approved and adopted
by Parliament on 07 March 2018, and to be effective from
15 April 2018.




Standing Orders of the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

These new Standing Orders were prepared by the
Committee on Standing Orders under Article 74 of the
Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka.

Parliament of Sri Lanka approved these new Standing
Orders on 07 March 2018, and resolved that they be adopted
as the Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka with effect from 15 April
2018.

Secretary-General of Parliament

Parliament of Sri Lanka
Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte.


Standing

Order No.

8-9
10
11-12
13-14
15-16
17-18
19
20

21

22
23
24-25
26
27-29
30
31-37
38

39-41
42
43-45
46
47-49

CONTENTS

First Meeting
Proceedings of the First Meeting of the Parliament
Seating of Members
Election of a Speaker

Official Oath or Affirmation ..

Election of the Deputy Speaker and the ? Deputy Chairperson of

Committees
Election of a President ..

Meetings
Meetings of Parliament ..
Duties of the Secretary-General
Quorum ..
Proceedings of Parliament
Adjournment ..

Dilatory Motions ..

Adjournment on Matters of Urgent Public Importance.

Motions or Questions at the time of Adjournment.
Strangers

Business of Parliament
Business of Parliament ..
Public Business
Private Members’ Motions
Papers
Notices ..
Public Petitions
Questions
Questions to the Prime Minister ..

Debate

Questions for Debate
Anticipation ..
Amendments ..
Closure ..

Voting

Page

WwW WN

IN

© OO 0 J 9 aN ON Dn Bs

10
10
11
12
12
14
15
17

18
19
19
21
21


Standing
Order No.

50
51

52-53
54
55
56
57-58
59-66
67-70
71-73
74
75

76
77-83
84-85
86-90
91
92

93-99
100-110
111

112

113

114
115
116
117
118
119

Bills
Procedure as to Presentation of Bills

Bills in respect of matters set out in List III of the Ninth Schedule to
the Constitution

Private Members’ Bills ..
Parties Affected, Witnesses, Evidence ..
Second Reading
Debate on Second Reading ..
Committee Stage of Bills
Procedure on Bills in Committee ..
Reports of Committees on Bills
Third Reading
Certificate of the Speaker
Allotted Days for the Appropriation Bill
Order
Responsibility for Rules of Order ..
Order in Parliament
Removal of certain persons upon substantive motion ..
Rules of Debate
Rules for Members Speaking in Parliament ..
Rules for Members not Speaking ..
Committees
Committee of the Whole Parliament
Select Committees
Sectoral Oversight Committees
Ministerial Consultative Committees ..
Legislative Standing Committee ..
Committees for Special Purposes
Committee of Selection.
Committee on Parliamentary Business...
Committee on Standing Orders
House Committee ..
Committee on Ethics and Privileges

Committee on Public Accounts

Page

22
23

23
25
25
26
26
27
28
28
29
29

30
31
33
35
36
38

38
39
40
46
47

48
49
49
49
50
51


Standing
Order No.

120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130

131-132
133

134
135
136-139
140
141
142
143

Committee on Public Enterprises ..

Committee on Public Finance

Committee on Public Petitions

Committee on Constitutional Affairs

Committee on High Posts

Liaison Committee

Backbencher Committee

Procedure for Special Purposes Committees
General Rules for Committees

Resignation or Removal of Chairs of Committees

Procedure in Committee of the Whole Parliament on Schedules to the
Appropriation Bill

Finance
Excesses
Public Money

Miscellaneous

Amendment of Standing Orders ..
Suspension of Standing Orders
General Authority of the Speaker ..
Panel of Chairs
No Legal Representation by Members ..
Expenses of Witnesses and Experts

Residuary Powers ..

Page

52
53
54
55
55
56
57
58
58
60

62
64

64
64
64
65
65
65
65


STANDING ORDERS OF THE
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE FIRST MEETING OF THE
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF SRI LANKA AFTER A GENERAL ELECTION

1. On the first day of a meeting of Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Parliament”) after a
general election, Members having assembled at the time and place duly
appointed and being seated in accordance with the provisions of Standing
Order 3, the Secretary-General of Parliament (hereinafter referred to as the
“Secretary-General”) shall read the Proclamation of the President of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the
“President”) by which the meeting was summoned and thereafter the order
of Business on such day shall be -

(a) the election of a Speaker;

(b) the Official Oath or Affirmation by the Speaker who shall take his oath
or make his affirmation before the Parliament as administered by the
Secretary-General;

(c) the Official Oath or Affirmation by all the Members before the Speaker;

(d) the election of the Deputy Speaker and the Chair of Committees
(hereinafter referred to as the “Deputy Speaker”);

(e) the election of the Deputy Chairperson of Committees,

and on the conclusion of such business, Parliament shall stand adjourned
to the date and time fixed by Parliament.

2. Whenever a vacancy occurs in the office of the Speaker, Parliament
shall, at its first meeting after the occurrence of the vacancy, proceed to elect
a Speaker.

SEATING OF MEMBERS

3. (1) On the first day of the meeting of Parliament after a general election
and thereafter until a seat has been allotted to each Member, the Members
may sit in any seat within the Bar.

(2) Seats shall be allotted to Members, from time to time, at the discretion
of the Speaker.


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

ELECTION OF A SPEAKER

4. The procedure for the election of a Speaker shall be as follows: —

(a) Any Member who wishes to propose a Member for election as the
Speaker shall ascertain in advance whether that Member is willing to
serve as the Speaker if elected.

(b) Any Member addressing the Secretary-General shall propose some
other Member then present in Parliament for its Speaker, and move
the name of the Member whom he proposes to take the Chair of
Parliament as the Speaker. The proposal shall be seconded, but no
debate shall be allowed.

(c) Ifonly one Member is so proposed and seconded as the Speaker, such
Member shall be declared by the Secretary-General without question
put, to have been elected as the Speaker. If more than one Member is
so proposed and seconded, Parliament shall, after the division bells
are rung for five minutes, proceed to elect a Speaker by secret ballot.

(d) For the purpose of a ballot the Secretary-General shall give each
Member present a ballot paper on which each such Member shall
write the name of the Member for whom such Member wishes to
vote and the ballot papers be folded so that the name written thereon
shall not be seen and shall be signed by the Member voting.

(e) The ballot papers shall be collected by the Secretary-General in such
manner as the Secretary-General shall determine, and counted by the
Secretary-General at the Table of Parliament. The results of the ballot
shall be declared by the Secretary-General.

(f) (1) Where more than two candidates have been proposed and at the
first ballot no candidate obtains more votes than the aggregate
votes obtained by the other candidates, the candidate who has
obtained the least number of votes shall be excluded from the
election and balloting shall proceed afresh with the candidate
obtaining the lowest number of votes at each ballot being
excluded until one candidate obtains more votes than the
remaining candidate or the aggregate votes of the remaining
candidates, as the case may be.

(11) Where at any ballot among three or more candidates, two or
more obtain an equal number of votes and one of them has to be
excluded from the election under sub-paragraph (i) above, the

(2)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka                                           I.

determination, as between the candidates whose votes are equal,
of the candidate to be excluded, shall be by lot which shall be
drawn in such manner as the Secretary-General shall decide.

(111) Where at any ballot between two candidates the votes are equal,
another ballot shall be held and at the end of such other ballot,
if the votes are still equal the candidate to be excluded shall be
determined by lot which shall be drawn in such manner as the
Secretary-General shall decide.

(g) As the ballot papers are counted they shall be placed in a box and,
when a Member has been declared elected as the Speaker, the box
shall be sealed in the presence of Parliament and kept in the custody
of the Secretary-General for one calendar month and then, subject to
any direction the Secretary-General may receive from Parliament,
the Secretary-General shall destroy ballot papers and certify that to
Parliament.

OFFICIAL OATH OR AFFIRMATION

5. (1) Having taken the Official Oath, or having made the Official
Affirmation, the Speaker shall cause the said Oath or Affirmation to be
administered to and signed by all Members present. The Oath or Affirmation
shall be administered by the Secretary-General.

(2) Every Member starting with the Speaker shall, immediately after
having taken the Oath or made the Affirmation, sign the book to be kept for
that purpose by the Secretary-General.

(3) On any day on which Parliament sits, a Member who has not previously
taken the Oath or made the Affirmation may notify the Secretary-General at
the Table at the time appointed under Standing Order 22 and thereupon the
said Oath or Affirmation shall be administered to such Member who shall
then sign the book.

ELECTION OF DEPUTY SPEAKER AND DEPUTY
CHAIRPERSON OF COMMITTEES

6. (1) At the first sitting of a newly elected Parliament as specified in
Standing Order 1, or at the commencement of Public Business at the first
meeting of Parliament after the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of
Deputy Speaker or of Deputy Chairperson of Committees, Parliament shall
proceed to the election of a Deputy Speaker or Deputy Chairperson of
Committees, as the case may be.

3)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(2) The procedure for the election of a Deputy Speaker and a Deputy
Chairperson of Committees shall be as nearly as may be the same as that
for the election of a Speaker save that the elections shall be conducted by
the Speaker.

ELECTION OF A PRESIDENT

7. In the event a President to be elected in terms of Article 40 (1) (b) of the
Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (hereinafter
referred to as the “Constitution”) the Parliament shall follow the procedure
specified in the Presidential Elections (Special Provisions) Act, No. 2 of
1981 to conduct the secret ballot using ballot papers.

MEETINGS OF PARLIAMENT

8. (1) Unless Parliament otherwise decides, Parliament shall meet in two
alternate weeks in each month commencing after the first Sunday of each
month and shall sit on every Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of
the first and the third of such weeks.

(2) The sitting of Parliament shall commence at 1.00 p.m. on Tuesdays
and Wednesdays and at 10.30 a.m. on Thursdays and Fridays:

Provided that, a meeting summoned by the President, shall begin at such
hour as the President may fix by notice given thereon.

(3) On Thursdays and Fridays, the proceedings on any Business of
Parliament under consideration at 12.30 p.m., unless Parliament otherwise
decides, be interrupted without question put and shall be resumed at
1.30 p.m.

(4) The Speaker shall adjourn Parliament at 7.30 p.m. without question put.

(5) At 6.30 p.m. The proceedings on any business then under consideration
shall be interrupted, and if Parliament be in Committee, the Presiding
Member shall leave the Chair and make his report to Parliament, and if
a motion has been proposed for the adjournment of Parliament, or of the
debate, or in Committee that the Chair do report progress or do leave the
Chair, every such dilatory motion shall lapse without question put:

Provided that, on the interruption of business, the closure may be moved
under Standing Order 46 and, if moved, or if proceedings under that
Standing Order be then in progress, the Speaker or the presiding Member
shall not leave the Chair until the question consequent thereon and on any
further motion as provided for in that Standing Order has been determined.

(4)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(6) After the business under consideration at 6.30 p.m. has been disposed
of, no business which may be opposed by any Member shall be taken up for
consideration.

(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (4) and (5) of this
Standing Order, for the purpose of concluding the present Business of the
House, the hours of sitting may be extended by the House on a proposal
made by a Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers without notice, if agreed
upon by a majority of Members present in the House.

9. A motion may be made by a Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers at
the commencement of Public Business, to be decided without amendment
or debate to the effect that the proceedings on any specified business be
exempted at a particular day’s sitting from the provisions of Standing Order
8, and if such a motion be agreed to, the business so specified shall not
be interrupted if it is under discussion at the time fixed for interruption of
business and may be entered upon at any hour though opposed:

Provided that, when the business exempted from the operation of Standing
Order 8 is disposed of after 6.30 p.m. The Speaker shall, immediately after
the conclusion of the last item of exempted business, adjourn Parliament
without question put.

DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL

10. (1) The Secretary-General shall keep the minutes of the proceedings
of Parliament and of Committees of the whole Parliament. The minutes shall
record the names of Members attending, and all decisions of Parliament.

(2) In the case of any division of Parliament or of a Committee of the
whole Parliament the minutes shall include the numbers voting for and
against the question. Where the division takes place under Standing Order
47(2)(b) and (c), the number and names of the Members so voting and
the number and names of those declining to vote shall be included in the
minutes. The minutes shall not require confirmation, but errors if any in the
minutes may be corrected, on a motion made, with the leave of Parliament.

(3) The Secretary-General shall prepare from day to day and keep on the
Table of Parliament and in the Library an Order Book showing all business
appointed for any future day and any notice of questions or motions which
have been set down for a future day, whether for a day named or not.
Business may be set down for any particular day and a note to that effect
made in the Order Book.

(5)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(4) The Secretary-General shall be responsible for the safe custody of
minutes, records, Bills and other documents laid before Parliament which
shall be open to inspection by Members of Parliament and by other persons
under such arrangements as may be sanctioned by the Speaker.

(5) The Secretary-General shall be responsible for ensuring the
administrative and resource support for committees.

QUORUM

11. The quorum of Parliament required in terms of Article 73 of the
Constitution is twenty Members including the person presiding. If at any
time the attention of the Speaker or other Member presiding is directed to
the fact that a quorum is not present, the Speaker or other Member presiding
shall order the division bells to be rung and if at the expiration of five
minutes a quorum be not present, the Speaker or other Member presiding
shall adjourn Parliament without question put.

12. The quorum of a Committee of the whole Parliament shall be twenty.
If the absence of a quorum be noticed in Committee of the whole Parliament
the Chair shall proceed in the manner specified in Standing Order 11 and
if a quorum be not present, he shall leave the Chair and, Parliament being
resumed, shall forthwith count the number of Members in Parliament. If
a quorum be not then present, Parliament shall adjourn as provided for in
Standing Order 11, but if a quorum be proved to be present, Parliament shall
forthwith resolve itself into Committee.

PROCEEDINGS OF PARLIAMENT

13. The Business of Parliament shall be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and
English. Every speech made in Parliament shall be recorded in the Official
Report of Parliamentary Debates (hereinafter referred to as the “Hansard”)
in the language in which it was made. It shall be the duty of the Speaker to
make suitable arrangements for the Members who do not understand the
language in which any speech is made. Such arrangements may include -

(a) the publishing of the Order Paper of Parliament in Sinhala, Tamil and
English;

(b) the simultaneous interpretation of speeches and other proceedings
into the other two languages;

(c) the printing of the front cover of the Hansard in Sinhala, Tamil and
English;

(6)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(d) recording of the speeches in the Hansard in the floor language, with
the name of the speaker entered in Sinhala, Tamil and English.

14. (1) The proceedings of the House may be made available for broadcast
over radio, television or any other electronic means or devices subject to the
rules and conditions that may be determined by Parliament, from time to
time.

(2) Any broadcasting of the proceedings of the House shall maintain such
standards of fairness as are adopted by Parliament.

(3) The proceedings of Committees shall also be available for broadcasting
at times as may be determined by the Committees, subject to the rules and
conditions the relevant Committees and Parliament may determine, from
time to time:

Provided that, the Speaker or a Chair of a Committee may exercise his
discretionary power to decide whether to allow, restrict or control the live
broadcast of the proceedings in Parliament or a Committee as the case may
be at any given time.

ADJOURNMENT

15. An adjournment of Parliament shall mean an adjournment till the next
ordinary Sitting Day, unless Parliament on a motion made after notice has
ordered an adjournment to some other definite date. A motion to adjourn
sine-die shall not be entertained.

16. During an adjournment of more than forty-eight hours duration, the
Speaker if so requested by the Prime Minister, shall give notice convening
Parliament for such date being an earlier date than to which Parliament had
adjourned as may be contained in the request and thereupon Parliament
shall meet on the date and the time specified in the notice issued by the
Speaker and shall transact its business as if it had been duly adjourned to
that date and time. When issuing such a notice, the Speaker shall take all
practicable steps to acquaint Members with the date and time for which
Parliament has been convened.

DILATORY MOTIONS

17. When a motion is made for the adjournment of a debate, or of
Parliament during any debate, or that the Chair or a Committee of the
whole Parliament “do report progress”, or “do leave the Chair”, the debate
thereupon shall be confined to the matter of such motion, and no Member

(7)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

having moved or seconded any such motion shall be entitled to move or
second, any similar motion during the same debate.

18. Where the Speaker, or other Presiding Member, or the Chair of a
Committee of the whole Parliament, shall be of the opinion that a motion
for the adjournment of a debate, or of Parliament during any debate, or
that the Chair do report progress, or do leave the Chair, shall be considered
as an abuse of the rules of Parliament, he may forthwith put the question
thereupon from the Chair, or may decline to propose the question thereupon
to Parliament.

ADJOURNMENT ON MATTERS OF URGENT PUBLIC
IMPORTANCE

19. (1) A motion for the adjournment of Parliament shall not be made
until Public Business has been entered upon unless a Member other than a
Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers rises in his place at the end of questions
and asks leave to move the adjournment of Parliament, for the purpose of
discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance and state the matter.

(2) Any such motion by a Member under paragraph (1) above shall not be
made unless -

(a) written notice of such motion is given to the Speaker before the
commencement of the sitting on the day on which the motion is
proposed to be made and the consent of the Speaker is obtained;
and

(b) the leave of Parliament has been obtained by such Member; or

(c) not less than twenty Members rise in their places to support
the request of such Member, where the leave of Parliament not
having been given:

Provided that, where the Speaker has refused his consent or is of the
opinion that the matter proposed to be discussed is not in order, he may
allow the Member raising the question to read the notice of the motion or
part thereof as approved by the Speaker and thereafter the Speaker shall
state the reason for refusing consent or holding the motion not in order.

(3) If the motion is so supported or Parliament gives leave, it shall stand
over until 5.30 p.m.

(4) Leave shall not be sought for more than one such motion on any one
day.

(8)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(5) The days on which Government Business has precedence, no motion
for the adjournment of Parliament, other than a motion made under the
provisions of this Standing Order, shall be moved between the items of
business set down for that day before 6.30 p.m. unless such motion be
moved by a Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers.

MOTIONS OR QUESTIONS AT THE TIME OF ADJOURNMENT

20. On a day the Committee on Parliamentary Business has decided to
entertain a motion or questions at the adjournment time of the House, not
more than one hour after conclusion of the Public Business of the House
shall be set apart for this purpose subject to the following rules: -

(a) The adjournment motion or questions shall be confined to matters of
urgent public importance;

(b) The Speaker shall have the power to disallow a motion or a question
if he is of the opinion that such motion or the question violates any
Standing Order or it is an abuse of the right of a Member to propose
such a motion or a question;

(c) The time allocated for a motion or questions at the adjournment time
of the House during the debate on the Appropriation Bill may be
reduced as may be determined by the Committee on Parliamentary
Business; and

(d) The procedure relating to the acceptance of motions or questions
at the adjournment time of the House shall be determined by the
Committee on Parliamentary Business.

STRANGERS

21. (1) “Strangers” may be present in the Chamber in places set apart for
them, under the rules made by the Speaker for such purpose.

(2) If at any sitting of Parliament, or in Committee, any Member shall take
notice that strangers are present, the Speaker, or the Chair, as the case may
be, shall forthwith put the question “That strangers be ordered to withdraw”
without permitting any debate or amendment.

(3) The Speaker or the Chair may, even in the absence of such notice,
whenever he thinks fit, order the withdrawal of strangers from any part of
the Chamber.

9)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(4) The Attorney-General or any representative who is present in
Parliament in the performance of the duties under Article 77 of the
Constitution shall not be deemed to be a stranger.

(5) The Speaker may grant a general permission to any representative of
any news-media to attend the sitting of Parliament. Such permission may
be revoked, if the news-media makes a report which the Speaker considers
unfair or is intended to cause disrepute to the House.

BUSINESS OF PARLIAMENT

22. The Business of Parliament shall be conducted in the following order:-

(1
(2)
3)
4)
5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
9)

Official Oath or Affirmation by new Members;
Messages from the President;

Announcements by the Speaker;

Presentation of Papers;

Presentation of Reports from Committees;
Presentation of Public Petitions;

Questions for oral Answers;

Motions for leave of absence;

Ministerial statements;

(10) Personal explanations;

(11) Questions of privilege;

(12) Motions at the commencement of Public Business not requiring

notice;

(13) Motions at the commencement of Public Business for which notice is

required;

(14) Votes of condolence;

(15) Public Business.

PUBLIC BUSINESS

23. (1) Public Business shall consist of Orders of the Day and Notices of
Motions.

(10)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(2) An Order of the Day shall be a Bill, Regulation, Resolution or any
other matter which Parliament has ordered to be taken into consideration
on a particular day. An earlier day cannot be substituted for the day so
appointed.

(3) Government Business shall have precedence on every day except the
sitting of the first Friday of each month.

(4) On the sitting of the first Friday of each month a motion may be made by
a Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers without notice at the commencement
of Public Business to be decided without amendment or debate to the effect
that “Government Business have precedence this day” or that “a specified
item of Government Business have precedence this day”. If such motion be
carried Government Business or the specified item of Government Business
shall have precedence accordingly.

(5) Government Business shall be set down in such order as the
Government thinks appropriate.

PRIVATE MEMBERS’ MOTIONS

24. (1) Unless Parliament otherwise orders, on the sitting of the first
Friday of each month, Private Members’ Business shall have precedence
over Government Business and Notices of Motions shall have precedence
over Orders of the Day.

(2) Unless a Member giving notice of a Private Member’s motion
indicating the desire to have such motion fixed for a particular Private
Members’ day, all Private Members’ motions shall be fixed for the next
available Private Members’ day. Any such motion shall be taken in the order
in which they appear in the Order Paper subject to any decision made by the
Committee on Parliamentary Business. Private Members’ Motions shall
be included in the Order Book in chronological order and not more than ten
motions submitted by any Member shall be included in the Order Book at
any given time.

(3) A “Private Member” does not include a Member holding the office of
the Speaker, Deputy Speaker, Deputy Chairperson of Committees, Prime
Minister, Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministers who are not
members of the Cabinet of Ministers, Deputy Ministers, Leader of the House

of Parliament, Leader of the Opposition in Parliament, Chief Government
Whip and the Chief Opposition Whip.

(11)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

25. All Orders of the Day, undisposed of at the adjournment of Parliament
shall be postponed until the next Sitting Day without a motion to that effect.
Any Notice of Motions not so disposed of shall, in the absence of any
specific instruction by the Member in whose name the notice stands, be
carried forward to the next Sitting Day if standing in the name of a Minister
of the Cabinet of Ministers or a Minister who is not a member of the Cabinet
of Ministers or a Deputy Minister, and to the first Friday sitting of the
following month if standing in the name of a Private Member.

PAPERS

26. (1) Papers shall be presented only by the Speaker, a Minister of the
Cabinet of Ministers, a Minister who is not a member of the Cabinet of
Ministers or a Deputy Minister.

(2) The presentation of any Paper shall be entered in the minutes.

(3) Ashort explanatory statement of the contents of any Paper may be made
on its presentation, but no debate shall take place at the time of presentation.

(4) All Papers presented shall be deemed to have been ordered to lie
upon the Table and any motion for the printing thereof shall be determined
without amendment or debate.

NOTICES

27. (1) Notice of questions or motions shall be given in writing, signed
by the Member giving the notice and addressed to the Secretary-General.
Such notices may be handed over to the Secretary-General at any time when
Parliament is sitting or may be sent to or left at the office of the Secretary-
General at any time.

(2) The Secretary-General shall, upon receipt of any notice in respect of
any question, unless the Speaker rules any question out of order, include in
the Order Book for answer on a day not earlier than seven clear days from
the day on which the notice was given:

Provided that, any question relating to a matter of urgent public importance
may be asked by the Leader of the Opposition or a leader of a recognized
political party at the conclusion of questions after due notice has been given
to the Minister concerned.

(3) The Secretary-General shall, upon receipt of any notice in respect of
any motion, unless the Speaker rules the motion out of order, include in the

(12)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Order Book, but unless Parliament otherwise orders, no debate thereon shall
take place unless five clear days have elapsed since the notice was given.
Notwithstanding anything in this paragraph, notices of motions to be moved
at the commencement of Public Business shall be included in the Order
Paper if received at the Table on the previous Sitting Day.

(4) No debate shall take place on the giving of notice of any matter.

(5) Unless otherwise provided for in these Standing Orders, no debate
shall take place except on a motion or order appearing in the Order Paper.

(6) A Member who has given notice of a question or a motion may
withdraw the same by giving written notice to that effect to the Secretary-
General.

(7) A ministerial statement shall be made by the Prime Minister or by
a Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers on a matter in respect of which
ministerial responsibility has been entrusted to that Minister. A Minister so
intending to make a statement shall first obtain the consent of the Speaker
having submitted a copy of the statement beforehand.

(8) A personal explanation may be made by a Member for the purpose of
vindicating the personal conduct of that Member in response to a reference
which has been made by another Member in the House while he was not
present in the House. Any Member so intending to make an explanation,
shall first obtain the consent of the Speaker having submitted a copy of
the explanation beforehand and giving adequate notice to the Speaker. The
explanation so made shall be strictly limited for the purpose of vindicating
the personal conduct of that Member.

28. Unless the Standing Orders otherwise direct, notice shall be given of
any motion which is proposed to make with the exception of the following:-

(a) A motion made in Committee of the whole Parliament;
(b) A motion for the adjournment of Parliament or of any debate;

(c) A motion that the report of a Select Committee be referred to a
Committee of the whole Parliament or be printed;

(d) A motion for the withdrawal of strangers;
(e) A motion for the suspension of a Member;

(f) A motion relating to a matter of privilege;

(13)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(g) A motion arising out of the business of the day immediately after that
business is disposed of and before any fresh matter is entered upon.

29. (1) An urgent motion directly concerning the privileges of Parliament
shall take precedence of all other motions, and any Orders of the Day.
The proceedings of Parliament may be interrupted at any moment, save
during the progress of a division, by a motion based on a matter of privilege
when a matter has recently arisen which directly concerns the privileges of
Parliament.

(2) Any Member intending to raise such a matter of privilege shall first
inform the Chair and obtain the permission of the Chair to interrupt the
proceedings of Parliament.

PUBLIC PETITIONS

30. (1) Every petition to Parliament shall be addressed to the Speaker and
shall be presented by a Member.

(2) Every petition shall be in respectful language and shall not contain
irrelevant statements.

(3) Every petition shall be clear and legible and shall conclude with a
prayer reciting the relief sought.

(4) Every petition shall be signed by the petitioner or petitioners except
in case of incapacity by sickness. A person unable to write shall affix a
personal mark in the presence of a witness. The full name, address and
the National Identity Card number of every signatory to a petition shall be
set out therein. the petitioner may also mention any other contact details
including the telephone number.

(5) No letters, affidavits or other documents shall be attached to any
petition.

(6) No reference shall be made in a petition to any debate in Parliament.

(7) It shall not be competent for a Member to present a petition on the
Member’s own behalf but the same may be presented by some other Member.

(8) Every petition shall, before it is presented, be signed at the beginning
thereof by the Member in charge of it and deposited at least two clear days
with the Secretary-General who shall submit it to the Speaker for approval
and no petition shall be presented until it has been so approved.

(14)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(9) A Member presenting a petition shall confine himself to a statement in
the following form, and no debate shall be permitted on this statement: —

 

“The Speaker, I present a petition from .......... of
Ne   Petiti
eerreireeireanns and            others.”.      (Name of Petitioner)
(Address of Petitioner)          (No. of Petitioners)

(10) A petition having been presented to Parliament shall stand referred to
the Committee on Public Petitions.

QUESTIONS

31. Atthe stage of Business provided by these Standing Orders questions
relating to public affairs may be put to the Prime Minister or to any Minister
relating to subjects and functions assigned to such Minister by the President
and for which such Minister has ministerial responsibility.

32. (1) When any question is reached on the Order Paper, and where an
oral answer to such question is required, the Speaker shall call upon the
Member in whose name the question stands and the Member so called shall
rise in his place and ask the question by reference to its number on the
Order Paper and the reply shall then be given by the Prime Minister or the
Minister to whom the question is addressed.

(2) The relevant Minister or in his absence the Minister who is not a
member of the Cabinet of Ministers or the Deputy Minister authorized by
such Minister shall be present in the House to answer orally such questions
on the day they are scheduled to be answered.

(3) A Minister who is unable to be present in the House to answer any
question raised by a Member on a particular day shall obtain prior leave of
the Speaker and inform the Speaker the arrangements that such Minister has
made to have the question answered.

(4) A question shall be answered at least on the third occasion that it is
scheduled to be answered.

(5) When a written answer to a question is required, the Prime Minister
or the Minister to whom the question is addressed shall cause the answer to
be printed in the Hansard in all three languages.

33. (1) Any Member may put not more than two supplementary questions
on any such answer given under Standing Order 32:

Provided that, such supplementary questions shall not introduce matters
not included in the original question, and shall be put only for the purpose
of further elucidating any matter arising out of an oral answer:

(15)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Provided further, the Speaker shall disallow any supplementary question
if the Speaker is of the opinion, that such supplementary question infringes
the rules as to admissibility of questions.

(2) The Speaker may limit the time allowed for raising of supplementary
questions and answers thereto.

34. (1) The proper purpose of a question shall be to obtain information on
a matter of fact within the special cognizance of the Minister to whom it is
addressed or to urge that action be taken.

(2) A question must not be made the pretext for a debate.

35. Not more than an hour shall be allotted to questions on any day and no
Member shall ask more than two questions for oral answer on any one day:

Provided that, not more than thirty minutes shall be reserved for questions
on a day on which the Committee Stage debate of the Appropriation Bill is
fixed.

36. The right to ask questions shall be subject to the following rules: —

(a) Only one subject shall be referred to in any one question and the
question shall not exceed one hundred and fifty words;

(b) Any name or statement not essential to make the question intelligible
shall not be mentioned in a question;

(c) Ifa question contains a statement, the Member asking it shall take the
responsibility for the accuracy of such statement;

(d) A question shall not contain any argument, inference, imputation,
epithet or ironical expression;

(e) A question shall not be asked about the proceedings in a Committee
which has not been placed before Parliament by a report from that
Committee;

(f) A question shall not refer to any matter which is under adjudication
by a court of law or to any matter on which a judicial decision is
pending;

(g) A question shall not be asked for an expression of opinion, or for the
solution of an abstract legal question or of a hypothetical proposition;

(h) A question shall not be asked as to the character or conduct of any
person unless it relates to the official or public capacity of that person;

(16)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(1) A question reflecting on the character or conduct of any person whose

conduct can only be challenged on a substantive motion shall not be
asked;

(J) A question making or implying a charge of a personal character shall
be disallowed; and

(k) A question fully answered in any session shall not be asked again
during the same session.

37. (1) The Speaker shall decide whether a question is or is not admissible
under these Standing Orders and he may disallow any question when in his
opinion it is an abuse of the right of questioning or calculated to obstruct
or affect prejudicially the procedure of Parliament or if it infringes the
provisions of any of these Standing Orders. Disallowance of a question by
the Speaker, with the reason therefor, shall be communicated in writing to
the Member concerned by the Secretary-General.

(2) Any notice which contains unbecoming expressions or offends against
any Standing Order of Parliament may be amended by the Speaker, with the
consent of the Member asking the question, before it appears in the Order
Book.

(3) If the Speaker is of the opinion that a question requires a lengthy
answer he may direct that the question be considered as one not for oral
answer and such decision be communicated to the Member concerned by
the Secretary-General.

QUESTIONS TO THE PRIME MINISTER

38. (1) During the time allocated for questions for oral answers on
Wednesday of the first week of the sitting of every month, half an hour may
be set aside to ask not more than four questions from the Prime Minister.
In the event that the Prime Minister is not available on the first Wednesday
the Committee on Parliamentary Business may decide a suitable day in the
course of the same month for such purpose.

(2) Any Member of Parliament other than a Minister of the Cabinet of
Ministers, a Minister who is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers or a
Deputy Minister seeking to ask a question under this Standing Order, shall
submit the question to the Secretary-General with a copy to the office of
the Leader of the House of Parliament before 12 noon of the Friday of the
preceding week.

(17)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(3) Questions to the Prime Minister shall be limited only to matters
relating to Government policies including matters of national importance.
Any question which requires a detailed answer or confined to a specific
subject may be referred to the Minister in charge of the relevant subject for
answer at the discretion of the Prime Minister.

(4) Two questions each for the Government and the Opposition may be
allotted on any given day.

(5) A Member of Parliament may ask only one question on any given day
and such question shall not exceed one hundred and fifty words.

(6) Questions to the Prime Minister shall be asked without including
arguments or expressing views and shall not address more than one common
public policy.

(7) After the Prime Minister has answered any question, the Member
who asked the question may ask two supplementary questions. Any other
Member of Parliament with the permission from the Member asking the
question may ask one or more of the supplementary questions:

Provided that, the supplementary questions shall be limited to the subject
relating to the main question or the answer given therefor.

QUESTIONS FOR DEBATE

39. It shall be competent for any Member to propose any motion on any
matter of public interest and such motion shall be debated, or otherwise
disposed of according to these Standing Orders.

40. (1) A motion or an amendment which by these Standing Orders is
required to be seconded, and is not seconded, shall lapse.

(2) If a Private Member does not move a motion which stands in his name
when called upon to do so, it shall lapse unless some other Member duly
authorized by that Member in writing, moves such motion on his behalf:

Provided that, an Order of the Day may be moved by any Member unless
the Member in charge of that order has previously signified to the Secretary-
General his desire to have the order deferred to another day.

41. A Member who has made a motion may withdraw the same with leave
of Parliament.

(18)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

ANTICIPATION

42. (1) It shall be out of order to make a motion or move an amendment
dealing with the subject matter of a Bill or other Order of the Day appointed
for consideration, and such amendment shall also be out of order if it deals
with the subject matter of a motion of which notice has been given.

(2) An Order of the Day, Notice of Motion or amendment of which notice
has been given, shall not be anticipated in a debate upon a motion for the
adjournment of Parliament or in any other debate.

(3) In determining whether a discussion is out of order on the ground
of anticipation, regard shall be had by the Speaker to the probability of
the matter anticipated being brought before Parliament within a reasonable
time.

AMENDMENTS
43. (1) A question, when proposed from the Chair, may be amended -

(a) by the deletion of certain words and the substitution therefor of
certain other words; or

(b) by the deletion of certain words; or
(c) by the insertion or addition of certain other words.

(2) Every such amendment shall be in writing and handed over to the
Secretary-General by the Member proposing it.

(3) Every amendment proposed to a Bill shall be examined by the
Attorney-General in terms of Article 77 of the Constitution.

(4) An amendment to a question shall be relevant to the question to which
such amendment is proposed.

(5) An amendment shall not raise any question which, by the rules of
Parliament can only be raised by a substantive motion after notice.

(6) After decision has been made on an amendment to any part of a
question, an earlier part of such question shall not be amended.

(7) In like manner, where an amendment of any part of a question has
been proposed from the Chair, an earlier part of that question shall not be
amended, unless the amendment so proposed is withdrawn.

(19)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(8) An amendment to a question shall not be inconsistent with a previous
decision on the same question given at the same stage of any Bill or matter.

(9) To an amendment, when proposed from the Chair, an amendment may
be moved.

44. (1) If an amendment is for the substitution of certain words for certain
other words, the Speaker or the Chair, after stating such amendment, shall
first propose the question “that the words proposed to be deleted stand part
of the question or clause” and if that question is put and answered in the
negative, he shall propose the question “that the words proposed by the
amendment be there substituted”:

Provided that, the Speaker or the Chair shall if possible put as the test
question on an amendment only such words as will not prevent a subsequent
amendment which is in order from being moved. If the question so proposed
be answered in the negative, the remainder of the words proposed by the
amendment to be deleted shall be deemed to be deleted without further
question.

(2) If the amendment is to the effect that certain words be deleted, the
Speaker or the Chair, after stating the amendment, shall propose the question
that the words proposed to be deleted stand part of the question or Clause.

(3) If the amendment is to the effect that certain words be deleted,
substituted, inserted or added, the Speaker or the Chair, after stating the
amendment, shall propose the question that the proposed words be there
deleted, substituted, inserted or added.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraphs of this
Standing Order, the Speaker may propose the question “That the amendment
be agreed to” in place of the “question or questions” stated therein.

(5) Where an amendment is moved to amend a proposed amendment,
the last mentioned amendment shall be dealt with as if it were the original
question until all the amendments to it have been disposed of.

45. On the conclusion of the debate on a question, the Speaker or the Chair
shall if the question then remains in its original form, state the question in
its original form or if the question has been amended, state the question in
its amended form, and put the question.

(20)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

CLOSURE

46. (1) After a question has been proposed, a Member rising in his place
may claim to move “That the question be now put”. Then the Chair, unless
it appears to the Chair that the motion is an abuse of the rules of Parliament
or an infringement of the rights of the minority, the question, “That the
question be now put”, shall be put forthwith.

(2) When the motion “That the question be now put”, has been carried
and the question consequent thereon has been decided, any further motion
necessary to decide any question already proposed from the Chair may be
made (the assent of the Chair not having been withheld) which may be
required to bring to a decision any question already proposed from the Chair.

(3) When a Clause is under consideration, a motion may be made (the
assent of the Chair as aforesaid not having been withheld) that the question
“that certain words of the Clause specified in the motion stand part of the
Clause or that the Clause stand part of or be added to the Bill,” be now put.

(4) Every motion made under this Standing Order shall be put forthwith
and decided without amendment or debate.

(5) A motion under this Standing Order shall not be carried in Parliament,
or in a Committee of the whole Parliament unless twenty Members vote in
favour.

VOTING

47. (1) The question shall be put by the Speaker and the votes may be
taken by voices, 'Ayes' and 'Noes', and the result may be declared by the
Speaker.

(2) Any Member who is not agreeable with the decision of the Speaker
may call for a division for a vote to be taken in any of the following methods
as may be determined by the Speaker. In such case the division bells shall
be rung for five minutes and thereafter -

(a) a division shall be taken by counting the Members row by row,
rising in their places in support or against the motion before the
House;

(b) adivision shall be taken by the use of the electronic vote recorder.
The Members shall press the appropriate button to indicate the
decision of such Members within the time period allowed by the
Speaker;

21)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(c) a division shall be taken by the Secretary-General asking each
Member separately as to how that Member desires to vote
and shall record the votes accordingly. The Secretary-General
shall first ask the Prime Minister and then the Ministers of the
Cabinet of Ministers, Ministers who are not members of the
Cabinet of Ministers and the Deputy Ministers in the respective
alphabetical order of their names and then the other Members
in the alphabetical order of their names. Any Member may if he
wishes to decline to vote state such fact to the Secretary-General.
In such case the Secretary-General shall record the name of such
Member as having declined to vote.

(3) The Speaker shall announce the numbers of the votes for and against
the decision and if the votes are equal the Speaker shall cast a deciding vote.
The Speaker shall then declare the result of the division.

48. In the event of confusion or inaccuracy in the course of a division
concerning the numbers or names recorded, which cannot otherwise be
corrected, the Speaker shall direct the House to proceed to another division
immediately thereafter.

49. If a Member states that he has exercised his vote erroneously or any
vote has been counted wrongly, that Member may claim that such error be
rectified:

Provided that, the Member shall make such claim before the Speaker has
declared that the time allowed for voting has ceased.

PROCEDURE AS TO PRESENTATION OF BILLS

50. (1) Any Minister may after notice, subject to the provisions of Article
78 of the Constitution, present a Bill without an order of Parliament for its
introduction. When a Bill is so presented at the commencement of Public
Business, the title of the Bill shall be read by the Secretary-General and
the Bill shall then be deemed to have been read the first time and to have
been ordered to be printed and shall stand for Second Reading on a date not
earlier than a week from the date on which it was presented.

(2) Every such Bill shall be referred to the relevant Sectoral Oversight
Committee without a motion immediately after the First Reading. the
Committee may suggest amendments to the Bill. No further proceedings
to be had until the Committee has reported back to Parliament or until the
expiration of period of time allowed by Parliament.

(22)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

BILLS IN RESPECT OF MATTERS SET OUT IN LIST III OF THE
NINTH SCHEDULE TO THE CONSTITUTION

51. (1) When a Bill in respect of any matter set out in List III of the Ninth
Schedule to the Constitution is presented to Parliament, unless Parliament

otherwise decides by resolution, the procedure laid down in paragraph (2)
of this Standing Order shall be followed.

(2) (a) The Speaker shall direct the Secretary-General to forward copies
of such Bill to each Provincial Council for report to Parliament
on its views regarding the Bill within a period of two months
from the date of reference of such Bill to such Provincial Council
or within such other period of time as Parliament may specify.

(b) On the expiry of the time specified in sub paragraph (a) above, or
on the receipt of the views of the Provincial Council, whichever
is earlier, Parliament may proceed with the Bill.

(3) (a) Whenever a communication is received from any Provincial
Council seeking to consult Parliament on any proposed Statute
to be made in respect of any matter set out in List III of the Ninth
Schedule to the Constitution, the Speaker shall announce its
receipt at the first available opportunity. The communication shall
thereupon be referred to the Legislative Standing Committee.

(b) After consideration of the report of the Legislative Standing
Committee, Parliament shall direct the Secretary-General to
forward the views of Parliament regarding the proposed Statute
to the Provincial Council concerned within two months of the
receipt of such communication.

PRIVATE MEMBERS’ BILLS

52. (1) Any Private Member desiring to introduce a Bill shall apply to
Parliament for leave to do so, setting the objective and leading features of
such Bill.

(2) Every such application shall be made in the form of a motion and the
Member making such application shall deliver to the Secretary-General a
copy of the proposed Bill, in Sinhala and Tamil with a translation in English
together with a copy of his motion.

(3) The Secretary-General shall refer the Bill to the Attorney-General to
seek his opinion as to whether the Bill is inconsistent with the Constitution

(23)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

and whether it attracts any impediment in respect of the Thirteenth
Amendment to the Constitution. The Attorney-General shall communicate
his observations to the Parliament within a period of six weeks.

(4) After the receipt of the opinion of the Attorney-General the Secretary-
General shall cause the Bill to be published in the Gazette in Sinhala and
Tamil with a translation in English.

(5) At any time after the lapse of a period of fourteen days from the date
on which the Bill was published in the Gazette, the motion referred to in
paragraph (2) above shall be placed on the Order Paper of Parliament.

(6) Leave being granted by the House on a question put and carried or in
the event that leave is not granted by the House but not fewer than twenty
Members rise in their places to support the Member, the Bill shall then
be deemed to have been read the first time and ordered to be printed and
shall stand referred without discussion to the Minister or Deputy Minister in
charge of the subjects and functions to which the Bill relates. If the Minister
or the Deputy Minister is not present it shall stand referred to such other
Minister or Deputy Minister as the Speaker may nominate and no further
proceedings shall be taken in respect of such Bill until the Minister or
Deputy Minister to whom it has been referred to has reported to Parliament
thereon.

(7) After the report referred to in paragraph (6) above has been made or if
after the expiry of six months from the date on which the Bill was referred
to the Minister or Deputy Minister and where no report has been made by
such Minister or Deputy Minister, the Bill shall be set down for Second
Reading upon such day as the Member in charge of the Bill desires.

53. (1) Where any Bill which is intended to affect or benefit some
particular person, association or corporate body is proposed, notice of
such Bill shall be given by advertising in the Gazette in Sinhala, Tamil and
English and at least in one Sinhala, one Tamil and one English newspaper
circulating in the Republic a statement of its general nature and objects, and
such advertisement shall appear at least one month before the application
for leave of Parliament to introduce the Bill is made.

(2) In the case of every such Bill, paragraph (2) of Standing Order 52
shall apply as if the words “and a copy of the advertisements published
under paragraph (1) of this Standing Order” had been inserted at the end of
that paragraph.

(24)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(3) Every such Bill after being read a second time shall be referred by the
Speaker to the Legislative Standing Committee.

(4) The Legislative Standing Committee on such a Bill shall require
proof of the facts and other matters set forth in the Bill as showing that it
is expedient that the Bill should be passed, and may take such oral or other
evidence as it may think requisite, and thereafter if the Legislative Standing
Committee finds that the said facts and other matters are not proved, shall
report accordingly; but if the Legislative Standing Committee finds that the
said facts and other matters have been proved, it shall consider the several
Clauses of the Bill, and may repeal, substitute or insert any Clause and may
make any other amendments which it may deem necessary, and all such
amendments shall be reported to Parliament:

Provided that, no Clause shall be allowed in such a Bill which is
inconsistent with the notice specified in paragraph (1) of this Standing
Order. No Clause affecting any private right or interest shall be allowed
in such a Bill unless circumstances are set forth in the Bill which render it
justifiable and expedient.

PARTIES AFFECTED, WITNESSES, EVIDENCE

54. (1) In any case, in which individual rights or interests may be peculiarly
affected by any Bill, any party so affected may be heard either in person or
by counsel upon petition before the Sectoral Oversight Committee or the
Legislative Standing Committee to which such Bill is referred to.

(2) Where the Sectoral Oversight Committee or the Legislative Standing
Committee intends to examine any witnesses, the petitioner or the Member
of Parliament requiring such witnesses, shall deliver to the Secretary-
General, a list containing the names, residence and occupation of such
witnesses at least two days prior to the day appointed for such examination.

(3) The evidence of every witness shall be taken down and read over to
the witness, who may then desire any correction to be made and in case no
such correction is made the evidence shall then stand as taken down and
shall not be altered afterwards.

SECOND READING

55. (1) A Bill shall be set down for Second Reading on a day not earlier
than a week from the day on which it was presented.

(25)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(2) When the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court to determine whether any
Bill or any provision thereof is inconsistent with the Constitution has been
invoked under Article 121 of the Constitution and a copy of the reference or
petition has been delivered to the Speaker -

(a) such reference or filing of a petition shall be conveyed to
Parliament by the Speaker on the first day of a meeting of
Parliament after such reference is made or such petition is filed;

(b) no proceedings in relation to such Bill shall be had until the
determination of the Supreme Court in respect thereof has been
made and communicated to the Speaker or until the expiration of
a period of three weeks from the date of such reference or filing
of such petition, whichever occurs first;

(c) upon receipt of the determination of the Supreme Court it shall
be announced to Parliament by the Speaker and no debate shall
be permitted on such announcement.

DEBATE ON SECOND READING

56. On the Second Reading of a Bill a debate may arise covering the
general merits and principles of the Bill.

COMMITTEE STAGE OF BILLS

57. When a Bill has been read a second time, upon a motion made by a
Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers, a Minister who is not a member of the
Cabinet of Ministers or a Deputy Minister, the Bill shall be referred to a
Committee of the whole Parliament:

Provided that, if upon a motion made by a Minister of the Cabinet of
Ministers, a Minister who is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers or
a Deputy Minister, Parliament so decides, a Bill, other than an Annual or
Supplementary Appropriation Bill, may be referred to a Select Committee
to be nominated by the Speaker or to the Legislative Standing Committee
or appropriate Sectoral Oversight Committee.

58. When a Bill has been referred to a Select Committee, Legislative
Standing Committee or a Sectoral Oversight Committee no further
proceedings shall be taken thereon until the Committee has reported.

(26)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

PROCEDURE ON BILLS IN COMMITTEE

59. Where any Bill is referred to a Committee under Standing Order 57,
such Committee shall discuss its several provisions and any proposed
amendments, and may adjourn its sitting or if it is a Committee of the whole
Parliament, report progress, from time to time, as occasion may arise.

60. The Chair of the Committee or the Secretary-General shall read the
number of each clause of the Bill in succession.

61. Any amendment may be made to a Clause, or Clauses by deleting,
substituting, inserting and adding provisions provided, the same be relevant
to the subject matter of the Bill, and be otherwise in conformity with the
Standing Orders.

62. The principle of the Bill shall not be discussed in Committee, but only
its details.

63. No amendment inconsistent with any decision made upon any previous
part of the Bill may be proposed.

64. After a Bill has been read through in Committee, and while it is still in
Committee, any Member may, with leave of the Chair, move an amendment
to any clause already passed.

65. The consideration of any clause of the Bill may be postponed until the
remaining clauses of the Bill have been considered and before new Clauses
are brought up.

66. (1) New Clauses may be proposed before the Schedules to the Bill
are considered and shall be deemed to have been read the first time. The
questions which follow thereupon shall be “That the Clause be read a second
time” and “that the Clause (or the Clause as amended) be added to the Bill”.

(2) New Schedules may be proposed after the Schedules to the Bill have
been disposed of and shall be treated in the same manner as new Clauses.

(3) When every Clause and Schedule and any proposed new Clause
or Schedule have been dealt with, the preamble, if there be one, shall be
considered and a question put “That this be the preamble of the Bill”.

(4) If any amendment be necessary to the title of the Bill, it shall be made
at the conclusion of the proceedings set out in this Standing Order.

(27)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON BILLS

67. When a Committee of the whole Parliament has completed the
consideration of a Bill, the Chair shall report the Bill with or without
amendments to Parliament.

68. A Sectoral Oversight Committee, the Legislative Standing Committee
or a Select Committee to which a Bill has been referred shall present a
report to Parliament setting out its recommendations, and a copy of the
report shall be distributed to every Member.

69. The report of a Select Committee on a Bill shall be presented by the
Chair and may be ordered to lie upon the Table, or be otherwise dealt with
as Parliament may direct. Upon motion made by any Member the Bill may
be referred to a Committee of the whole Parliament or the report of the
Select Committee set down for consideration upon a day to be appointed by
the Member in charge of the Bill.

70. The report of a Sectoral Oversight Committee or the Legislative
Standing Committee on a Bill shall be presented by the Chair and the
report shall be set down for consideration upon a day to be appointed by
the Member in charge of the Bill. Upon consideration of the report from
a Sectoral Oversight Committee, Legislative Standing Committee or a
Select Committee, Parliament shall consider only those amendments, if
any, made by the Committee but may further amend those amendments.
No new amendments shall be made by Parliament upon consideration of
the report except such are as consequential upon amendments made by the
Committee and accepted by Parliament, but the Bill may be recommitted to
the same Committee with reference to particular amendments made by that
Committee.

THIRD READING

71. A Bill having passed through Committee of the whole Parliament,
or having been reported without amendment to Parliament by a Select
Committee, may, on motion made, forthwith be read a third time and passed,
or if Parliament so direct the Third Reading may be postponed.

72. (1) When a Bill has been reported to Parliament by a Sectoral Oversight
Committee or the Legislative Standing Committee without amendments,
it may upon the day appointed for its consideration, be forthwith read a
third time and passed or if Parliament so direct, the Third Reading may be
postponed.

(28)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(2) Ifa Sectoral Oversight Committee, the Legislative Standing Committee
or a Select Committee has amended the Bill, it may be read a third time and
passed as soon as Parliament has considered the amendments made by the
Committee or if Parliament so direct, the Third Reading may be postponed.

73. At the Third Reading of a Bill any amendments to the words or for the
purpose of drafting requirements, may be made upon Motion after notice.
At any time before the certificate of the Speaker is endorsed on the Bill the
Speaker shall have the power to correct any grammatical or typographical
errors in the Bill.

CERTIFICATE OF THE SPEAKER

74. As soon as may be after a Bill has been passed by Parliament the
Speaker shall endorse on the Bill in Sinhala and Tamil the Certificate
specified in Article 79 of the Constitution.

ALLOTTED DAYS FOR THE APPROPRIATION BILL

75. (1) Twenty-six days and no more (unless as hereinafter provided)
being days before 31st December shall be allotted to the consideration of
the Appropriation Bill:

Provided that, the number of days occupied in the consideration of any
Supplementary Appropriation Bill shall not be included in the computation
of the aforesaid twenty-six days.

(2) Except on Friday on a day so allotted the hours of sitting shall be 9.30
a.m. to 12.30 p.m. and 1.00 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. On Friday the hours of sitting
shall be 9.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. and 1.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m.:

Provided that, at 6.00 p.m. The provisions of paragraph (4), (5) and (6) of
Standing Order 8 shall operate.

(3) On a day so allotted, the Appropriation Bill shall be put down as the
first item of Public Business and no other Public Business shall be taken
before 6.00 p.m. on any such day.

(4) Not more than seven days shall be allotted to the Second Reading of
the Bill, and at 6.00 p.m. on the last allotted day the Speaker shall, unless
the proceedings on Second Reading have terminated earlier put forthwith
any question necessary to dispose of the Second Reading and to commit
the Bill and Parliament shall not be adjourned until all such questions have
been disposed of.

(29)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(5) Except as provided for in paragraph (1) above, not more than twenty
two days shall be allotted to the Committee Stage of the Appropriation Bill
and on the last of such days at 6.00 p.m. The Chair shall, unless the Bill has
previously been reported, put forthwith the question on any amendment then
under discussion and then successively on any Government amendments
to that Head and the question necessary to dispose of that Head and shall
then proceed successively to put forthwith the question with respect to
each Ministry’s Head that the total amounts of the Heads outstanding in the
Ministry’s Estimates be inserted in the Schedule for the services defined in
those Estimates and then that the several Schedules respectively stand part
of the Bill and Parliament shall not be adjourned until the Bill has been
reported.

(6) On any day on which proceedings under this Standing Order are to
be brought to a conclusion the consideration of such proceedings shall not
be anticipated or interrupted by a motion of adjournment and no dilatory
motion shall be moved on such proceedings:

Provided that, if leave is given for a motion of adjournment under
Standing Order 19 such motion shall stand over until the proceedings on the
Appropriation Bill have been concluded and at 8.00 p.m. The Speaker shall,
unless Parliament be previously adjourned, adjourn Parliament without
question put.

RESPONSIBILITY FOR RULES OF ORDER

76. (1) The Speaker in Parliament and the Chair in any Committee shall
be responsible for the observance of the rules of order in Parliament and
Committee respectively and their decision upon any point of order shall not
be open to appeal and shall not be reviewed by Parliament except upon a
substantive motion made after notice.

(2) Whenever the Speaker or the Chair interrupts during a debate, any
Member speaking or offering to speak shall sit down and Parliament or
Committee shall be silent so that the Speaker or the Chair may be heard
without interruption.

(3) When a question of order has been raised the Member, who raises it
shall resume his seat, and no other Member, except by leave of the Speaker
or the Chair shall rise until the Speaker or the Chair has decided the question,
after which the Member who was addressing Parliament at the time the
question was raised shall be entitled to proceed with his speech, complying
with the ruling of the Chair.

(30)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

ORDER IN PARLIAMENT

77. (1) Whenever any Member is named by the Speaker immediately after
the commission of the offence of disregarding the authority of the Chair, or
of abusing the rules of Parliament by persistently and willfully obstructing
the Business of Parliament, or otherwise, the Speaker shall forthwith put
the question on a motion being made (no amendment, adjournment or
debate being allowed) “that such Member be suspended from the service
of Parliament”.

(2) If any such motion be carried and any Member be suspended under
this Standing Order the suspension of such Member on the first occasion
shall be for two weeks; on the second occasion during the same session
shall be for three weeks; and on the third or any subsequent occasion during
the same session shall be for four weeks:

Provided that, a Member whose services have been suspended may
be authorized by the Speaker to cast his vote only for the final vote of
Appropriation Bill during the period of such suspension.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) above, any
Member who comes into contact with the mace or lift the mace while it is
kept within the precincts of the House commits a grave disorder and shall
be suspended for a period of four weeks notwithstanding the fact that such
offence was committed by that Member on the first occasion.

(4) Not more than one Member shall be named at the same time, unless
several Members present together have jointly disregarded the authority of
the Chair.

(5) If any Member or Members acting jointly who have been suspended
under this Standing Order from the service of Parliament, refuse, at any
time during the period of suspension, to obey the direction of the Speaker
to withdraw from the precincts of Parliament, the Speaker may direct such
steps to be taken as are required to enforce his decision.

(6) If an offence under paragraph (1) above is committed in a Committee
of the whole Parliament, the Chair shall forthwith suspend the proceedings
of the Committee and report the circumstances to Parliament and the Speaker
shall on a motion being made thereupon put the same question without
amendment, adjournment or debate, as if the offence has been committed in
Parliament.

(31)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

78. The Speaker, after having called the attention of Parliament to the
conduct of a Member who persists in irrelevance or tedious repetition either
of his own arguments or of the arguments made by other Members in debate
may direct the Member to discontinue his speech and may order that the live
broadcast be discontinued.

79. (1) The Speaker shall order a Member whose conduct amounts to gross
disorder to withdraw immediately from Parliament during the remainder of
the sitting of the day and may direct such steps to be taken as are required to
enforce his order. the Serjeant-at-Arms shall act on such order.

(2) If on any occasion the Speaker deems that his powers under this
Standing Order are inadequate, he may name such Members in pursuance
of Standing Order 77.

80. Any Member who is suspended under Standing Order 77 or is directed
to withdraw under Standing Order 79 shall forthwith withdraw from the
precincts of Parliament and shall during the period of such suspension, be
debarred also from the Committees.

For the purposes of this Chapter, “Precincts of Parliament” includes the
Parliament Buildings and the land area from Gate No. 1 to Gate No. 3 of
the Parliament.

81. In case of grave disorder arising in Parliament, the Speaker may, if he
deems it necessary, adjourn Parliament without question put or suspend the
sitting for a time as may be determined by the Speaker.

82.(1) Any Member who has used objectionable words in debate
which are improper or unparliamentary or has stated in debate anything
in contravention of Standing Order 83 or paragraph (f) or (h) of Standing
Order 91 and has not explained or retracted the same, or offered apologies to
the satisfaction of Parliament for the use of such objectionable words or who
has committed any breach of order not specified in these Standing Orders
may be proceeded against in any way that Parliament thinks fit, and nothing
in these Standing Orders shall prevent Parliament from proceeding against
any Member for breaches of order specified in these Standing Orders in any
other manner than the manner as specified in these Standing Orders.

(2) Where the Speaker is of the opinion -

(a) thatany Member persists in irrelevancy or contravening Standing
Orders he may order that any broadcasting of the proceedings be
immediately suspended;

(32)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(b) that objectionable words have been used in debate which are
improper or unparliamentary or that anything has been stated in
debate in contravention of Standing Order 83 or paragraph (f) or
(h) of Standing Order 91, may in his discretion order that such
words or such statements be expunged from the Hansard and
those words or statements shall be regarded as unspoken.

83. (1) The personal conduct of the President, or the Acting President,
Members of Parliament, Judges or other persons engaged inthe administration
of justice shall not be raised except upon a substantive motion; and in any
proceedings, question to a Minister, or remarks in a debate on a motion
dealing with any other subject reference to the conduct of any such person
shall be out of order.

(2) In this Standing Order “Judge” means the Chief Justice, the President
of the Court of Appeal and every other Judge of the Supreme Court and
Court of Appeal appointed by the President of the Republic by Warrant
under his hand.

REMOVAL OF CERTAIN PERSONS UPON SUBSTANTIVE
MOTION

84. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, where
notice of a resolution for the presentation of an address to the President for
the removal of the Chief Justice, Judges of the Supreme Court, the President
of the Court of Appeal and Judges of the Court of Appeal from office on
the ground of alleged misbehaviour or incapacity is given to the Speaker
in terms of Article 107 of the Constitution, the Speaker shall entertain such
resolution and place it on the Order Paper of Parliament.

(2) (a) Where a resolution referred to in paragraph (1) above is placed
on the Order Paper of Parliament, the Speaker in consultation
with the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition in
Parliament, shall appoint a panel of inquiry consisting of three
retired Judges of the Supreme Court to investigate on the alleged
misbehaviour or incapacity of the Judge concerned.

(b) The Speaker shall appoint one of the members of the panel of
inquiry as the Chair of such panel of inquiry.

(3) The panel of inquiry so appointed shall conclude the inquiry within a
period of two months and the relevant procedure will be prescribed by law.
However, the Speaker at the request of the panel of inquiry may extend such

(33)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

time for further periods not exceeding one month at a time.

(4) After conclusion of the proceedings of inquiry, the panel of inquiry
so appointed shall report its findings together with the minutes of evidence
taken before the panel to the Speaker and the Speaker shall present findings
of the panel of inquiry to Parliament only if the panel of inquiry has found
the Judge concerned is guilty of the alleged misbehaviour or incapacity.
If the panel of inquiry has found that the Judge concerned is not guilty, he
must inform it to Parliament and terminate the proceedings.

(5) If the panel of inquiry has reported that the Judge concerned has
been found guilty of the alleged misbehaviour or incapacity, the Speaker
shall present it for approval of Parliament. If such resolution is passed by a
majority of the total Members of Parliament (including those not present)
the Speaker shall forward the same to the President for the removal of the
Judge concerned on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.

(6) The panel of inquiry may continue its functions notwithstanding a
prorogation or a dissolution of Parliament.

85. (1) Where a resolution for the presentation of an address to the
President for the removal from office of -

(a) the Secretary-General of Parliament appointed under Article 65
of the Constitution; or

(b) the Commissioner-General of Elections appointed under Article
104E of the Constitution; or

(c) the Auditor-General appointed under Article 153 of the
Constitution; or

(d) the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration appointed
under Article 156 of the Constitution (Ombudsman),

is placed on the Order Paper of Parliament, such resolution shall not be
proceeded with until after the expiration of a period of one month from the
date on which the Select Committee appointed under paragraph (2) of this
Standing Order has reported to Parliament.

(2) Where a resolution referred to in paragraph (1) above is placed on the
Order Paper of Parliament, the Speaker shall appoint a Select Committee
of Parliament consisting of not less than seven members to investigate and
report to Parliament on the matters set out in such resolution.

(34)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(3) (a) A Select Committee appointed under paragraph (2) above shall
transmit to the person whose removal from office is the subject
matter of its investigation, a copy of the matters set out in the
resolution in pursuance of which such Select Committee was
appointed, and shall require such person to make a written
statement of defence within such period as the Select Committee

may specify.

(b) The person whose alleged misbehaviour or incapacity is the
subject of the investigation by a Select Committee appointed under
paragraph (2) above shall have the right to appear before the Select
Committee and to be heard by such Committee, in person or by an
Attorney-at-Law and to adduce evidence, oral or documentary, in
disproof of the allegations made against such person.

(4) The Select Committee appointed under paragraph (2) above shall
have the power to summon any person and call for papers and records and
not less than half the number of members of the Select Committee shall
form the quorum.

(5) At the conclusion of the investigation made by the Select Committee
appointed under paragraph (2) above, it shall report its findings to Parliament
together with the minutes of evidence taken before it, and may make a special
report of any matter which it may think fit to bring to the notice of Parliament.

(6) Where a resolution for the presentation of an address to the President
referred to in paragraph (1) of this Standing Order is passed by Parliament,
the Speaker shall present such address to the President on behalf of
Parliament.

RULES OF DEBATE

86. No Member shall speak more than once on any proposition before
Parliament except -

(a) in explanation of some material part of his speech which has
been misunderstood, but without the introduction of any new
matter; or

(b) to a point of order.

87. The Member who moves any motion or amendment may speak in
support thereof; however, no further debates shall be allowed nor shall any
question thereon be put to Parliament until the motion or amendment be
duly seconded.

(35)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

88. Any Member may second a motion or amendment by rising in his
place and bowing to the Chair, without prejudice to his right to speak at a
later period of the debate.

89. No Member may speak to any question after the same has been fully
put by the Speaker. A question is fully put when the voices of both the Ayes
and the Noes have been given thereon.

90. When a question for debate has been proposed, debated, and disposd
of, it shall not be competent to any Member, without the leave of the
Speaker, again to propose such question in the same Session, nor shall it
be competent, without such leave, to revive in any debate any matter upon
which Parliament has come to a conclusion during the same Session.

RULES FOR MEMBERS SPEAKING IN PARLIAMENT

91. Every Member shall in speaking to any proposition under
consideration of Parliament, strictly observe the following rules:-

(a) Every Member shall address his observations to the Speaker and
except with the leave of the Speaker, speak standing from the
seat allotted to him.

(b) No Member shall be interrupted, unless on a point of order or the
Member speaking gives way for intervention.

(c) When a Member has finished his observations, the Member
shall resume his seat, and any other Member wishing to address
Parliament may rise.

(d) If two Members rise at the same time, the Speaker shall call on
the Member who first catches his eye.

(e) Every Member must confine his observations to the subject
under discussion.

(f) No Member shall refer in any motion or debate, to any matter
which is under adjudication by a court of law or to any matter on
which a judicial decision is pending. The Speaker or the Chair
may direct any Member who speaks in violation of the rule
against sub judice to resume his seat:

Provided that, the Speaker may allow such reference if he is
of the opinion that there is no real and substantial danger or

(36)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

prejudice to the outcome of the judicial proceedings before
court. (sub judice rule)

(g) If any offensive or disorderly words are used, whether by a

(h)

(1)
0)

(k)

M

Member who is speaking or by a Member who is present, the
Speaker shall bring him to order and direct that such reference
be expunged from the Hansard.

No Member shall make any imputation of improper motives
against another Member, or make reference to personal affairs
of another Member.

A Member shall speak on the subject matter before Parliament.

By the indulgence of Parliament, a Member may explain
matters of a personal nature although there is no question before
Parliament, but such matters may not be debated, and he shall
confine himself strictly to the vindication of his own conduct.

The Member moving a Bill, Regulation, Resolution or Motion
shall have the right to reply at the conclusion of the debate.

Any Member deviating from the rules may be immediately
called to order by the Speaker.

(m) The Members shall, except when voting, make an

(n)

(0)

acknowledgement to the Chair on entering and leaving the
Chamber.

When the Speaker or the Presiding Member is about to leave
the Chamber at the conclusion of a sitting, Members shall rise
in their places and remain standing until the Speaker or the
Presiding Member has left the Chamber.

Notwithstanding the provisions of this Standing Order, the
Speaker shall be responsible for allocating time among Members
in a fair and equitable manner. In determining who should be
called to speak, the Speaker may be assisted by the Whips of the
Government and the Opposition by providing a list of speakers
whom the Speaker may call to speak in an orderly manner.

(37)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

RULES FOR MEMBERS NOT SPEAKING

92. (1) Any Member, during a debate in Parliament or in a Committee of
the whole Parliament -

(a) Shall enter Parliament or Committee with decorum and in an
orderly manner;

(b) Shall not cross the floor of Parliament;

(c) Shall not read newspapers, save such as related to the business
before Parliament;

(d) Shall not smoke;

(e) Shall maintain silence while another Member is speaking and
shall not interrupt unless the Member speaking gives way;

(f) shall not converse using verbal communication devices; and
(g) shall not enter the well of the House.
(2) Points of Order

A Member may in any proceedings question whether proper procedures
have been or are being followed by making a point of order except at a time
when a division is in progress.

In making a point of order, a Member may not speak for more than one
minute and may not speak on the question under consideration. Points
of order shall take precedence over the question under consideration, the
discussion of which shall be suspended while they are being considered.

The Speaker or the Presiding Member shall normally take an immediate
decision on any point of order in accordance with these Standing Orders but
may exceptionally defer taking a decision. The Speaker or the Presiding
Member shall announce the ruling made under this Standing Order and no
further discussion on the decision shall be allowed.

COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE PARLIAMENT

93. (1) A Committee of the whole Parliament shall be appointed by a
resolution of Parliament.

(2) When such resolution has been agreed to, the Speaker shall leave the
Chair without question put.

(38)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

94. The Speaker, or if he is not present, the Deputy Speaker, shall preside
as Chair of a Committee of the whole Parliament, and in the absence of both,
the Deputy Chairperson of Committees shall preside. In the absence of the
Speaker, the Deputy Speaker and the Deputy Chairperson of Committees,
any Member of the Panel of Chairs shall preside.

95. Voting in Committee of the whole Parliament shall be carried out
in accordance with the provisions of Standing Orders 47 to 49 with the
substitution of the word “Chair” for the word “Speaker”.

96. The Chair of a Committee of the whole Parliament shall not vote
unless the votes of the other Members are equally divided, in which case the
Chair may exercise a casting vote.

97. The rules as to procedure when the Speaker is in the Chair, shall apply
to procedure in Committee of the whole Parliament except that -

(a) a motion shall not require notice;
(b) a motion need not be seconded;
(c) a Member may speak more than once to the same question.

98. A Committee of the whole Parliament shall deal only with the matters
referred to it by Parliament.

99. The proceedings in a Committee of the whole Parliament shall be
recorded in the minutes of Parliament.

SELECT COMMITTEES

100. A Select Committee may be appointed by resolution of Parliament.

101. A Select Committee shall not, without the leave of Parliament, consist
of more than twelve Members. A motion for such leave requires notice.

102. The scope of an inquiry by a Select Committee shall be determined
by the terms of the order under which it is appointed but it may be enlarged
or restricted by the instructions of Parliament. Such order shall specify the
time for the presentation of the final report of the committee provided that
Parliament may extend such time period to a specified date as it deems
appropriate.

103. The Chair and Members of every Select Committee shall be appointed
by the Speaker. In the absence of the Chair, any Member of the Committee
chosen by the Members present, shall chair for that meeting.

(39)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

104. The Committee shall hold its first meeting at such time and place as
may be appointed by the Chair. Meetings after the first meeting shall be held
at such times and places as the Committee may determine.

105. Four Members of a Select Committee shall unless otherwise ordered,
form the quorum.

106. In case where a vacancy occurs in any such Committee, the Speaker
may appoint, from time to time, another Member to take the place of such
Member on a Select Committee. Any Member who absents from three
consecutive meetings of a Select Committee without having obtained
the prior leave of the Committee, shall be deemed to have vacated his
membership of such Committee. Every appointment under this Standing
Order shall be announced to Parliament at its next meeting.

107. The Chair of a Select Committee shall have an original vote. If the
votes cast be equally divided, he may exercise a casting vote.

108. Ifit is desired to enable a Select Committee to which a Bill or matter
has been referred to hear evidence thereon, Parliament may by resolution
empower that Committee to summon persons and call for papers and records,
and any Committee on which such powers have been conferred shall have
leave to report their opinions and observations together with the minutes of
evidence taken before them to Parliament and to make a special report of
any matter which they may think fit to bring to the notice of Parliament.

109. A Select Committee may continue its investigations although
Parliament may be adjourned or prorogued and shall not be dissolved until
the presentation to Parliament of its report or by motion of Parliament.

110. The names of the Members present each day at the sitting of any
Select Committee, the names of the witnesses examined and in the event of
any division taking place, the question proposed, the name of the proposer
and the respective votes thereupon of the Members present, shall be entered
in the minutes of the proceedings of the Committee and such minutes of
proceedings together with the minutes of evidence shall be reported to
Parliament and printed with the report of the Committee.

SECTORAL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEES

111. (1) The Parliament shall by resolution within six weeks after its first
sitting consequent to an election, appoint such number of Sectoral Oversight
Committees as may be determined by the Committee of Selection:

(40)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

However, the number of Sectoral Oversight Committees at any given time
shall not exceed twenty.

(2) The Sectoral Oversight Committees shall function for the duration of
Parliament and conduct its inquiries notwithstanding any adjournment or
prorogation of Parliament.

(3) The Committee of Selection shall determine the subjects and functions
to be allocated to each Sectoral Oversight Committee.

(4) The Sectoral Oversight Committees shall have the power to examine
any Bill, any subsidiary legislation including Regulation, Resolution,
Treaty, Report or any other matter relating to subjects and functions within
their jurisdiction.

(5) The Parliament, any Committee or a Minister may refer any matter
to a Sectoral Oversight Committee having jurisdiction over the subject or
function for its consideration and report.

(6) The Sectoral Oversight Committees shall have general oversight
responsibilities in order to assist Parliament in -

(a) its analysis, appraisal and evaluation of the application,
administration, execution and effectiveness of legislation passed
by Parliament and conditions and circumstances that may
indicate the necessity or desirability of enacting any new or
additional legislation; and

(b) its formulation, consideration and enactment or changes in any
law and of such additional legislation as may be necessary or
appropriate:

Provided that, any recommendation or proposal under this
Standing Order which envisages additional budgetary resources
shall be reviewed concurrently with the Committee on Public
Finance.

(7) (1) In order to determine whether any law, project or programme
relating to subjects within the jurisdiction of a Sectoral Oversight Committee
are being implemented effectively and carried out in accordance with the
intent of Parliament and whether they should be continued, curtailed, or
eliminated, each Sectoral Oversight Committee shall review and study on a
continuing basis.

(41)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(2) The Sectoral Oversight Committees shall do all or any one or more of
the following:-

(a)

(d)

(e)

(®)

(2)

review and study the application, administration, execution, and
effectiveness of legislative projects and programmes addressing
subjects within its jurisdiction;

review and study the organization and operation of Departments
and Institutions having responsibilities for the administration
and execution of legislative projects and programmes addressing
subjects within its jurisdiction;

review any conditions or circumstances that may indicate the
necessity or desirability of enacting any new or additional
legislation addressing subjects within its jurisdiction (whether
or not a Bill or resolution has been introduced with respect
thereto);

review any subsidiary legislation including regulations of
government ministries to ensure that they are consistent with the
legislative intent for delegated responsibilities;

examine the accounts of public corporations or institutions
funded wholly or in part by Government;

examine the suitability of any person who has been either
appointed to any post or nominated to hold office in any post
determined by the Cabinet of Ministers within the jurisdiction of
that Sectoral Oversight Committee and to make recommendations
in regard to such persons to the appropriate Ministry; and

engage in future research and forecasting on subjects within its
jurisdiction.

(8) The Sectoral Oversight Committees may conduct at any time such
investigations and studies as it considers necessary or appropriate in the
exercise of its responsibilities.

(9) Each Sectoral Oversight Committee shall, not later than six weeks
after its appointment, adopt its oversight plan for that Session of Parliament.
Such plan shall be submitted to the Committee on Parliamentary Business for
its observations. In developing its plan, each Sectoral Oversight Committee

shall -

(42)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(a) consult the other Committees that have jurisdiction over the
same or related legislative projects, programmes, or agencies
within its jurisdiction with the objective of ensuring maximum
co-ordination and cooperation among Committees when
conducting reviews of such legislative projects, programmes,
or agencies and include in its plan an explanation of steps that
have been or will be taken to ensure such co-ordination and
co-operation;

(b) review specific problems with Government rules, regulations
and statutes which need further consideration or that impose
severe financial burdens on individuals;

(c) give priority consideration to matters including in its plan the
review of those legislative projects, programmes, or agencies
operating under permanent budget authority or permanent
statutory authority; and

(d) ensure that all significant legislative projects, programmes, or
agencies within its jurisdiction are subject to periodic review.

(10) The Speaker shall on receipt of the oversight plans from Sectoral
Oversight Committees, report to Parliament.

(11) The Parliament shall refer each Bill, subsidiary legislation including
regulation, resolution or other matter that relates to a subject within the
purview of any Sectoral Oversight Committee, in accordance with the
provisions of this Standing Order.

(12) The Parliament shall refer any matter to any Sectoral Oversight
Committee in such manner as to ensure to the maximum extent feasible that
each Sectoral Oversight Committee that has jurisdiction over the subject
matter of a provision thereof may consider such provision and report to
Parliament thereon.

(13) In carrying out the provisions of paragraphs (10) and (11) above,
with respect to the referral of a matter, the Speaker -

(a) shall designate a Committee exercising primary jurisdiction;

(b) may refer the matter to one or more additional Committees for
consideration and its opinion initially or after the matter has
been reported by the Committee exercising primary jurisdiction;

(43)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(c) may subject a referral to appropriate time limitations; and

(d) may make such other provisions as may be considered
appropriate.

(14) When an opinion is sought from an additional Committee other than
the Committee that exercises the primary jurisdiction under paragraph (13)
above, the opinion shall be dealt solely with those matters that fall under the
areas of responsibility of the Committee giving that opinion.

(15) When the Speaker refers any matter to an additional Committee,
he may fix a time period within which such additional Committee shall
forward its opinion.

(16) Each Sectoral Oversight Committee when acting in the exercise of
its jurisdiction shall submit to the Speaker, a report in respect of each item
considered by such Committee. The Speaker shall cause such report to be
tabled before Parliament, and -

(a) any report by a Sectoral Oversight Committee on any Bill shall
comprise draft amendments if any to the proposal accompanied,
if appropriate with brief justifications; and

(b) any such amendment to a Bill shall be moved by the Chair of the
Committee or any other Member designated by the Committee
during the Committee stage of such Bill under Standing Order
61 as an amendment moved by the Chair of the Committee or
such other Member.

(17) Each Sectoral Oversight Committee shall prepare an annual calendar
of its meetings.

(18) Each Sectoral Oversight Committee shall meet not less than two
days of every month. The meetings of each Sectoral Oversight Committee
shall be summoned in accordance with the calendar or timetable or as may
be decided by the Chair. Additional meetings of any Sectoral Oversight
Committee may be summoned either by the Chair or at the request of not
less than half the members of the Committee.

(19) All Members of Parliament other than the following are eligible to
serve as members of any Sectoral Oversight Committee: -

(a) The Speaker;
(b) The Deputy Speaker;

(44)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(¢) The Deputy Chairperson of Committees;

(d) The Prime Minister;

(e) The Leader of the House of Parliament;

(f) The Leader of the Opposition in Parliament; and

(g) The Ministers of Cabinet of Ministers appointed under Article
43(2) of the Constitution.

(20) Every eligible Member may serve as a Member of not more than
three Sectoral Oversight Committees at any given time. Deputy Ministers
and Ministers not falling under paragraph (19) (g) above shall not be eligible
to serve in any Sectoral Oversight Committee whose jurisdiction and related
functions are the same as any subject, function, Department or Institution of
the Minister of the Cabinet under whose purview such Deputy Minister or
Minister functions:

Provided that, the Committee may summon the Minister, the Minister
who is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers or the Deputy Minister to
assist the Committee when a Bill is being discussed in the Committee.

(21) The Committee of Selection shall in nominating Members to Sectoral
Oversight Committees have due regard to numerical strengths of political
parties and independent groups represented in Parliament in accordance
with the nominations made by the leaders of such political parties and
independent groups.

(22) (a) The Leader of any political party or independent group
represented in Parliament may in writing request the Committee
of Selection to remove any such Member nominated under
paragraph (21) above from such Committee. The Committee of
Selection shall on receipt of such request discharge any such
Member from such Committee and inform Parliament.

(b) Any Member of Parliament, who is not a Member of a particular
Sectoral Oversight Committee may be permitted to observe the
Committee proceedings by the Chair of any such Committee.

(23) Each Sectoral Oversight Committee shall at its first meeting and
thereafter, at the first meeting after the Chair becomes vacant, elect a Chair
from among the members of the Sectoral Oversight Committee.

(45)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(24) Any Member who absents from three consecutive meetings of any
Sectoral Oversight Committee without obtaining leave of such Committee
shall be deemed to have vacated membership of such Committee.

(25) Each Sectoral Oversight Committee may where it considers necessary
appoint sub-committees of its own members to examine and report to such
Committee such matters as the Committee may deem necessary.

(26) Any matter referred to a Sectoral Oversight Committee may not be
taken up for consideration by Parliament until six weeks has lapsed from
the date of the reference, unless the Parliament has directed otherwise. The
Parliament may by resolution extend such period.

(27) Every Sectoral Oversight Committee may in regard to any Bill or
any other matter of public importance, call for evidence from any affected
or interested party.

(28) Every Sectoral Oversight Committee is empowered to summon
persons and call for papers and records and shall submit to Parliament,
Reports containing their opinions and observations together with the
minutes of evidence taken before them.

(29) Any reservation by a member of a Sectoral Oversight Committee
may be appended to any report of such Committee.

(30) Where a Sectoral Oversight Committee recommends the enactment
of legislation or submit a non-legislative report, the Cabinet of Ministers
shall submit its opinion to Parliament within six weeks of such report being
tabled in Parliament.

MINISTERIAL CONSULTATIVE COMMITTEES

112. (1) There shall be “Ministerial Consultative Committees”
corresponding to the number of Ministries of the Cabinet of Ministers,
comprising,-

(a) The Cabinet Minister in charge of the relevant subject as
Chairperson;

(b) State Minister;
(¢) Deputy Minister; and

(d) Five other Members of Parliament nominated by the Committee
of Selection.

(46)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(2) The duty of the Committee is to discuss such matters as are referred to
the Committee by any Member of Parliament.

(3) Apart from the Members of the Committee, any other Member may
also attend the meetings of the Committee with the permission of the
Chairperson of that Committee.

(4) The Committee shall meet once a month and shall report its findings
to Parliament within two weeks of their meeting.

(5) The meetings of the Committee shall be summoned in consultation
with the Secretary to the respective Ministry.

(6) The Committee shall have the power to summon before it and
question any person, call for and examine any paper, book, record or other
documents.

(7) General Rules for Committees shall apply to Ministerial Consultative
Committees.

LEGISLATIVE STANDING COMMITTEE

113. (1) There shall be a Committee to be designated the Legislative
Standing Committee consisting of the Deputy Speaker as the Chair, the
Deputy Chairperson of Committees and ten other Members nominated by
the Committee of Selection.

(2) The Committee of Selection may also decide on the number of co-
opted Members to serve on the Committee representing both government
and the opposition and the Speaker is empowered to nominate such
Members.

(3) The quorum of the Committee shall be three members.

(4) The duty of this Legislative Standing Committee shall be limited to
the consideration of the Bills/proposed statutes referred to it by Parliament.

(5) For the performance of its duties the Committee shall have power to
send for persons, papers and records.

(6) The Chair of the Legislative Standing Committee shall have an original
vote and if the votes be equally divided, he shall also have a casting vote.

(7) The Member in charge of any Bill referred to this Legislative Standing
Committee, if not a member of the Committee, shall have the right to attend
any meeting at which such Bill shall be under discussion and to address the
Committee upon the Bill, and to move amendments and vote as a member

(47)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

of the Committee upon any question arising in connection with such Bill.

(8) The procedure in the Legislative Standing Committee shall be as
nearly as may be the same as that in Committee of the whole Parliament and
the minutes of the Legislative Standing Committee shall be kept in the same
form as those of a Committee of the whole Parliament and shall be reported
to Parliament within the time limit, if any, laid down by Parliament, together
with the Bill/proposed statute and the report thereon.

Provided, that where at the conclusion of a session the Legislative Standing
Committee has not completed its deliberations and presented its report to
Parliament, the proceedings of that Committee shall stand referred to the
Legislative Standing Committee to which the Bill/proposed statute may be
referred in the next session.

COMMITTEES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES

COMMITTEE OF SELECTION

114. (1) There shall be a Committee to be designated the Committee of
Selection appointed at the commencement of every Session to consider
the constitution, number, functions and quorum of Sectoral Oversight
Committees and Ministerial Consultative Committees and to report with
all convenient speed their opinions thereon to Parliament, and to nominate
Members to serve upon the following Committees: -

(a) the Committee on Parliamentary Business;
(b) the Committee on Standing Orders;

(¢c) the House Committee;

(d) the Committee on Ethics and Privileges;
(e) the Legislative Standing Committee;

(f) the Ministerial Consultative Committees;
(g) the Committee on Public Accounts;

(h) the Committee on Public Enterprises;

(1) the Committee on Public Finance;

(j) the Committee on Public Petitions;

(k) the Committee on High Posts; and

(I) the Backbencher Committee.

(48)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(2) The Committee of Selection shall consist of the Speaker who shall
be the Chair and twelve Members which shall include the Leaders of
political parties or their nominees to be nominated by Parliament at the
commencement of each Session. The Committee of Selection shall have
leave to sit notwithstanding any adjournment of Parliament, to report
from time to time, and to inform Parliament when any Member has been
nominated to any Committee.

COMMITTEE ON PARLIAMENTARY BUSINESS

115. There shall be a Committee to be designated the Committee on
Parliamentary Business consisting of the Speaker who shall be the Chair,
the Deputy Speaker, the Deputy Chairperson of Committees, the Leader
of the House of Parliament, the Leader of the Opposition in Parliament,
the Chief Government Whip, the Chief Opposition Whip and eight other
Members to be nominated by the Committee of Selection. It shall be the
duty of the Committee on Parliamentary Business to consider and decide
on the time that should be allocated for the discussion of such Business
of Parliament and such other matters as the Speaker, in consultation with
the Leader of the House of Parliament, may refer to the Committee. The
minutes of meetings of the Committee on Parliamentary Business shall be
circulated to all Members.

COMMITTEE ON STANDING ORDERS

116. There shall be a Committee to be designated the Committee on
Standing Orders consisting of the Speaker who shall be the Chair, the
Deputy Speaker, the Deputy Chairperson of Committees and six other
Members to be nominated by the Committee of Selection. It shall be the
duty of the Committee on Standing Orders to consider matters of procedure
and conduct of Business in Parliament and to recommend any amendments
to the Standing Orders that may be deemed necessary and to report on
all matters relating to the Standing Orders which may be referred to it by
Parliament.

HOUSE COMMITTEE

117. (1) There shall be a Committee to be designated the House Committee
consisting of the Speaker as Chair and nine Members nominated by the
Committee of Selection.

(2) The function of the House Committee is to consider and advise upon all
matters connected with the amenities of Members. The minutes of meetings
of House Committee shall be circulated to all Members.

(49)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

COMMITTEE ON ETHICS AND PRIVILEGES

118. (1) There shall be a Committee to be designated the Committee on
Ethics and Privileges consisting of not more than ten Members nominated
by the Committee of Selection.

(2) The functions of the Committee on Ethics and Privileges are -

(a) to examine every question of Privilege and matters relating to
the breach of rules of conduct and etiquette that may be referred
to it on motion moved and approved by Parliament; and

(b) to determine with reference to the facts of each case whether
a breach of Privilege on the rules of conduct and etiquette
has been committed and if so, the nature of the breach, the
circumstances leading to such breach and its recommendations
as the Committee may deem fit.

(3) The report of the Committee on each question referred to it shall be
presented to Parliament not later than six weeks. The Committee shall have
the power to summon persons, and call for documents and other records
and to do other acts as are necessary for the examination of the matters so
referred to it.

(4) The Committee shall also examine any matter referred to it in relation
to a violation or non-adherence of the rules of the Code of Conduct of the
Members of Parliament. Every Member shall co-operate, at all stages, with
any such examination by or under the authority of Parliament. No Member
shall lobby a Member of the Committee on Ethics and Privileges in a manner
calculated or intended to influence its consideration of an alleged breach of
the rules of Code of Conduct.

(5) Inthe performance of its duties the Committee may obtain the services
of experts, call for documents and summon and examine witnesses.

(6) The Parliament may consider conclusions and recommendations made
in the report of the Committee on Ethics and Privileges and may impose
sanctions on Members concerned where it deems necessary.

(7) The Committee may, from time to time, make rules to regulate its
procedure.

(8) The Chair of the Committee may issue such directions as the Chair
may consider necessary for regulating the procedure in respect of all matters
connected with the examination of cases with reference to ethical and other
misconduct of Members.

(50)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC ACCOUNTS

119. (1) There shall be a Committee to be designated the Committee
on Public Accounts consisting of sixteen Members nominated by the
Committee of Selection.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Committee on Public Accounts to examine
the accounts showing the appropriation of the sums granted by Parliament to
meet the public expenditure and such other accounts laid before Parliament
as the Committee may think fit, with the assistance of the Auditor-General.

(3) The Committee on Public Accounts shall, from time to time, report
to Parliament on the accounts examined, the finances, financial procedures,
performance and management generally of any department, local authority
and on any matter arising therefrom.

(4) A report of the Committee on Public Accounts, once tabled in
Parliament shall be referred to the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance and the Ministers in charge of the institutions who shall submit
their observations and steps taken therein contained to the Parliament within
a period of eight weeks.

(5) The Committee on Public Accounts may when it considers necessary,
appoint sub-committees consisting of its own Members to examine and
report to the Committee on all accounts and the finances and management
of such departments and local authorities as the Committee may direct.

Members who are not Members of the Committee on Public Accounts
may be allowed to observe the proceedings of the Committee with the
permission of the Chair.

(6) The Committee on Public Accounts or any of its sub-committees shall
for the performance of its duties have the power to summon before it and
question any person and call for and examine any paper, book, record or
other document and to have access to stores and property.

(7) The quorum of the Committee on Public Accounts shall be four
Members.

(51)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC ENTERPRISES

120. (1) There shall be a Committee to be designated the Committee
on Public Enterprises consisting of sixteen Members nominated by the
Committee of Selection.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Committee on Public Enterprises to examine
the accounts of public corporations, institutions funded wholly or in part
by Government and of any business or other undertaking vested under any
written law in the Government laid before Parliament, with the assistance
of the Auditor-General.

(3) The Committee on Public Enterprises shall, from time to time, report to
Parliament on the accounts examined, the budgets and annual estimates, the
finances, financial procedures, performance and management generally of
any public corporation or of any business or other undertaking vested under
any written law in the Government and on any matter arising therefrom.

(4) A report of the Committee on Public Enterprises, once tabled in
Parliament shall be referred to the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance and the Ministers in charge of the institutions who shall submit
their observations and steps taken therein contained to the House within a
period of eight weeks.

(5) The Committee on Public Enterprises may when it considers necessary
appoint any sub-committees consisting of its own Members to examine and
report to the Committee on all accounts, the budgets and annual estimates,
the finances and management of such public corporations or of any business
or other undertaking vested under any written law in the Government as the
Committee may direct.

Members who are not Members of the Committee on Public Enterprises
may be allowed to observe the proceedings of the Committee with the
permission of the Chair.

(6) The Committee or any of its sub-committees shall for the performance
of its duties have the power to summon before it and question any person
and call for and examine any paper, book, record or other document and to
have access to stores and property.

(7) The quorum of the Committee on Public Enterprises shall be four
Members.

(52)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC FINANCE

121. (1) There shall be a Committee to be designated the Committee on
Public Finance consisting of a Chair and eleven Members nominated by the
Committee of Selection provided that the Chair shall be a Member of the
Opposition.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Committee on Public Finance to examine—
(a) the collection of revenue under Article 148 of the Constitution;
(b) the payment from the Consolidated Fund;
(c) the utilization of public funds for specific purposes by law;
(d) the application of public funds;

(e) the recessions of appropriations contained in the Appropriations
Act for the current year, the transfer of appropriation and the
unexpected balance;

(f) the implementation of the Appropriation Act for the current
year;

(g) public debt and debt service; and

(h) reports and statements under the Fiscal Management
(Responsibility) Act, No. 3 of 2003.

(3) The Committee shall, from time to time, report to Parliament, the
issues arising from the matters referred to in paragraph (2) above.

(4) The Committee shall present within six weeks of the tabling of the
Appropriation Bill, a report on the estimates including whether the allocation
of money is in compliance with the policies of the Government.

(5) The Committee shall present before Parliament within four days after
the presentation of the Budget and the Second Reading of the Appropriation
Bill, a Report on the fiscal, financial and economic assumptions used as the
basis in arriving at total estimated expenditure and revenue.

(6) The Committee shall have power to fix its quorum.

(7) The Committee shall make interim reports from time to time.

(53)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC PETITIONS

122. (1) There shall be a Committee to be designated the Committee on
Public Petitions consisting of fifteen Members nominated by the Committee
of Selection.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Committee on Public Petitions to consider
the petitions referred to it under the provisions of paragraph (10) of Standing
Order 30.

(3) Where the Committee on Public Petitions is of the view that any
petition discloses an infringement of a fundamental right or other injustice
by a public officer or an officer of a public corporation, local authority or
other like institution, the Committee on Public Petitions may inquire into
such petition or refer such petition, to the Parliamentary Commissioner for
Administration (Ombudsman) to inquire and report.

(4) The Committee on Public Petitions having inquired into the petition or
after consideration of a report made to it by the Parliamentary Commissioner
for Administration (Ombudsman) upon the conclusion of his investigation
in respect of a petition referred to him by the Committee on Public Petitions,
may report to Parliament its opinion on the action to be taken on such
petition or report.

(5) The Committee on Public Petitions shall, from time to time, report
to Parliament its opinion on the action to be taken in respect of petitions
referred to it, together with such other observations on such petitions as it
may think fit.

(6) When the report is tabled in Parliament, the Speaker shall take steps to
send the contents of such report to the relevant Minister for his observations
which shall be forwarded to the Speaker in writing within a period of eight
weeks.

(7) Having received the observations of the relevant Minister, the Speaker
shall forward a copy of such observations to the Chair and the Member of
Parliament who has presented the petition.

(8) The Committee on Public Petitions may, when it considers necessary,
appoint any sub-committees of its own Members to examine and report
to the Committee on Public Petitions of such petitions or reports as the
Committee on Public Petitions may direct.

(9) The Committee on Public Petitions or any of its sub-committees shall,
for the performance of its duties have the power to summon before it and

(54)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

question any person, call for and examine any paper, book, record or other
document and to have access to stores and property.

(10) The quorum of the Committee on Public Petitions shall be three
members.

COMMITTEE ON CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS

123. (1) There shall be a Committee to be designated the Committee on
Constitutional Affairs consisting of the Speaker as the Chair, the Prime
Minister, the Leader of the House of Parliament, the Leader of the Opposition
in Parliament and three other Members nominated by the Speaker.

(2) The quorum of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs shall be three
Members.

(3) All independent commissions established under the Schedule of the
Article 41B of the Constitution, shall forward to Parliament a report of its
activities, including exercise, performance and discharge of its powers,
duties and functions for each calendar year.

(4) The Committee shall consider the annual reports and shall have
the power to summon the Chairpersons, members and officials of the
commissions in the exercise of its duties.

(5) For the avoidance of doubts, this Committee will not seek any
clarification with respect to judicial proceedings instituted or to be instituted
by the Commissions if any.

COMMITTEE ON HIGH POSTS

124. (1) There shall be a Committee to be designated the Committee on
High Posts consisting of not more than twelve Members nominated by the
Committee of Selection.

(2) The functions of the Committee on High Posts are to examine the
suitability of any person who has been either appointed to any post or
nominated to hold office in any post determined by the Cabinet of Ministers
and to make recommendations in regard to such persons.

(3) In the case of persons appointed or nominated for the posts of
Secretaries to Ministries, Heads of Missions abroad and Chairpersons of
selected Corporations as determined by the Committee on High Posts shall
be examined within a period of three months.

(55)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(4) The Committee on High Posts shall, for the performance of its duties,
have the power to summon before it and examine any person and call for
and examine any paper, book, record or other document and to do all such
acts as may be necessary for the fullest examination of the suitability of any
such person referred to in paragraph (2) above.

(5) Notwithstanding a prorogation of Parliament, the Committee shall
have the power to report to Parliament, from time to time, and shall continue
its examination.

(6) The quorum of the Committee on High Posts shall be four Members.

LIAISON COMMITTEE

125. (1) The Speaker shall at the beginning of a new Parliament appoint
the Liaison Committee.

(2) The Liaison Committee shall comprise of the following:-

(a) the Speaker who shall be the Chair of the Committee;
(b) the Deputy Speaker;

(c) the Deputy Chairperson of Committees;

(d) the Leader of the House of Parliament;

(e) the Leader of the Opposition in Parliament;

(f) the Chief Government Whip;

(g) the Chief Opposition Whip; and

(h) Chairs of the Committee on Ethics and Privileges, Committee on
Public Accounts, Committee on Public Enterprises, Committee
on Public Finance, Legislative Standing Committee, Sectoral
Oversight Committees, Ministerial Consultative Committees,
Committee on Public Petitions, Committee on High Posts, and
the Backbencher Committee.

(3) The Liaison Committee shall consider -
(a) matters pertaining to facilities and staffing of Committees;
(b) the availability of committee rooms for meetings of Committees;
(c) the availability of experts and researchers for Committees;
(d) the attendance at meetings by members of Committees; and

(e) the allocation of time to debate reports of Committees.

(56)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(4) The Committee shall meet at least once in two months and the Chair
shall take steps to summon the meetings of the Liaison Committee.

(5) The Liaison Committee shall have the power to summon persons and
call for papers and records, to sit and to report to Parliament, from time to
time.

BACKBENCHER COMMITTEE

126. (1) There shall be a Committee to be designated the Backbencher
Committee, nominated by the Committee of Selection.

(2) The Backbencher Committee shall consist of the Chief Government
Whip, the Chief Opposition Whip, three Backbenchers from the Government
and three Backbenchers from the Opposition.

(3) In the case of Members from the Opposition, one place shall be
allotted to the largest party in the Opposition and another place shall be
allotted to the second largest party in the Opposition;

(4) Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers, save and except the Chief
Government Whip, State Ministers, Deputy Ministers, the Leader of the
House of Parliament, the Leader of the Opposition in Parliament and
Leaders of the Political Parties shall not be entitled to be a Member of this
Committee.

(5) The Chief Government Whip shall be the Chair of the Committee and
in his absence, the Chief Opposition Whip shall chair the Committee.

(6) It shall be the duty of the Backbencher Committee to determine the
Business to be taken up on days allotted for Backbencher Business.

(7) The Committee shall have the powers as of any other Committee set
up for Special Purposes and the General Rules for Committees shall apply
mutatis mutandis to this Committee.

(8) The Committee may invite Government officials to attend its meetings.

(9) Any Backbench Member of Parliament desiring a debate on any
matter shall inform in writing to the Backbencher Committee setting out -

(a) the importance of holding a debate;
(b) the number of Members who are likely to take part; and

(c¢) whether the matter has been debated or is scheduled to be debated
or is likely to be debated in the current Session in Parliament.

(57)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(10) The Backbencher Committee, if it considers that the request made
by any Backbench Member of Parliament under paragraph (9) above is
appropriate, shall request the Committee on Parliamentary Business for
allocation of time for such a debate.

(11) The Committee on Parliamentary Business shall thereafter allocate
a suitable date and time for such debate.

PROCEDURE FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES COMMITTEES

127. (1) Unless otherwise specified in the Standing Orders, every
Committee for Special Purposes, before the commencement of Business at
its first meeting, shall elect one of its Members to be its Chair.

(2) The Chair shall have an original vote and if the votes cast be equally
divided the Chair shall have a casting vote.

(3) Unless otherwise specified in the Standing Orders, vacancies of a
Committee shall be filled by the Committee of Selection. The filling of
every such vacancy shall be announced to Parliament at its next meeting.

(4) Unless otherwise specified in the Standing Orders, the quorum shall
be three Members and it shall be the duty of the Chair of such Committee
not to function without the required quorum.

(5) Meetings of a Committee shall be summoned by the Chair.

(6) Inthe absence of the Chair any other Member elected by the Committee
shall preside.

(7) Any Member who absents himself from three consecutive meetings
without having obtained the prior leave of such Committee, shall be deemed
to have vacated his membership of such Committee:

Provided that, the preceding provisions shall not apply where any meeting
of such Committee is held on a day falling within the period during which
such Member has, with the leave of Parliament first obtained, absents
himself from Sittings of Parliament.

GENERAL RULES FOR COMMITTEES

128. (1)The Secretary-General, or any other officer of Parliament
nominated by the Secretary-General shall be the Secretary to each Committee
save and except for Standing Order 85 (1) (a).

(58)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(2) Each Committee may, when it considers necessary appoint sub-
committees of its own Members to examine and report to such Committee
on such matters within a period to be specified by such Committee. Such
Committee may when it considers necessary authorize any such sub-
committee for the performance of its duties to summon before it and
question any person and call for and examine any paper, record or document
and move from place to place for the fullest consideration of the matters
referred to it and to meet notwithstanding any adjournment of Parliament.

(3) Each sub-committee appointed under paragraph (2) above shall
consist of a Chair and two or more Members nominated by the Committee
from among its Members. Two Members, including the Chair of such sub-
committee shall form the quorum.

(4) The Secretary to any Committee may delegate an officer from among
the staff to every sub-committee who shall prepare and maintain the minutes
of every such sub-committee.

(5) The report of a Committee or sub-committee shall be presented by the
Chair or in the absence of the Chair by any other Member of the Committee
authorized by the Chair.

(6) Any Member of the Committee functioning as the Chair of one sub-
committee shall not function in that capacity concurrently in any other sub-
committee of such Committee.

(7) When any report of a Committee is tabled in Parliament, the Parliament
may order that the relevant Minister shall respond in relation to the contents
of such report within a period of eight weeks. In relation to any report of the
Committee on Public Accounts and Committee on Public Enterprises, the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance has to table the Government’s
response. the relevant Ministers shall respond in respect of reports from
other Committees.

(8) A Committee and any sub-committee appointed by such Committee
shall obtain permission from the Speaker to sit outside the Parliament.

(9) A Committee shall have the power subject to the approval of the
Speaker to appoint persons with specialized knowledge either to provide
information or to elucidate matters of complexity within the Committee’s
terms of reference and to remunerate such persons.

(10) Every Committee and any sub-committee appointed by such
Committee when so authorized by the Committee shall have the power to

(59)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

admit strangers to their meetings with the approval of the Speaker. Such
strangers may be excluded when the Committee or sub-committee is
deliberating.

(11) The Chair of such Committee or sub-committee shall determine the
procedure to be followed in the admission of strangers to the meetings.

(12) The rules applicable in respect of visitors to the galleries of
Parliament shall apply to strangers admitted to meetings of a Committee or
sub-committee.

(13) The Chair of a Committee or a sub-committee shall have the same
powers as the Speaker in respect of maintaining order at the meetings of the
Committee or sub-committee, as the case may be.

RESIGNATION OR REMOVAL OF CHAIRS OF COMMITTEES

129. (1) In the case of every Committee other than a Select Committee,
where -

(a) the Chair has ceased to be a Member of the House; or

(b) the Chair has given written notice to the Speaker of his wish to
resign from the Chair; or

(c) the Committee has adopted a resolution that it has no confidence
in the Chair in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (2)
and (3) of this Standing Order,

the Speaker shall declare the Chair vacant and, as soon as practicable,
announce the date of the election of a Chair of that Committee which shall
be not less than seven Sitting Days after that announcement.

(2) No motion expressing no confidence in its Chair may be made in a
Committee unless notice of the motion has been circulated to the Chair and
to all Members of the Committee at least seven Sitting Days in advance of
the meeting at which the motion is to be made.

(3) A resolution by a Committee expressing no confidence in its Chair shall
have no effect for the purposes of paragraph (1) (c¢) above unless either -

(a) itis agreed by the Committee without a division; or

(b) the majority of the membership of the Committee, including
at least two Members from the Government and at least one
Member from the Opposition, vote in favour of the resolution.

(60)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(4) A motion expressing no confidence in the Chair may not be made
in a Committee in the six months following the election of a Chair by the
Committee or in the year following a vote on such a motion on that Chair.

PROCEDURE IN COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE PARLIAMENT
ON SCHEDULES TO THE APPROPRIATION BILL

130. (1) The Chair shall call the title of each Programme under each
Head of Expenditure on which a motion may be made to reduce or
omit any Project or Object appearing in the printed estimates under
that Programme and the question to be proposed thereon shall be “That

Programme.......................be reduced by Rs. .......coooviiiiiiiiiii,
in respect of object ...........oooiiiiiiiiiiiiia,” (or “in respect of
Project......coovvviiiiii,).

(2) When a question has been proposed for the reduction or omission of
a Project or Object, Members shall speak to such question only, until it has
been disposed of.

(3) When several motions are offered to the same Programme they shall
be called upon in the order in which the Projects or Objects to which they
relate appear in the printed Estimates.

(4) When several motions are offered to the same Project or Object in
a Programme the smallest reduction shall be first proposed and a motion
to omit the Project or Object shall only be proposed after all motions for
reductions have been disposed of.

(5) After a question has been proposed from the Chair for reducing or
omitting any Project or Object, no motion shall be made or debate allowed
upon any preceding Project or Object.

(6) After a question has been proposed from the Chair for the omission
or reduction of any Project no motion shall be made for the reduction or
omission of any item in that Project.

(7) No motion for an increase of the expenditure of a Programme, Project
or Object shall be made except by a Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers
after notice and that notice shall amongst other things, set out to what sum it
is proposed to raise the expenditure on that Programme and that the sanction
of the Cabinet of Ministers had been obtained for the increase.

(8) If no motion for a reduction or omission of any Project or Object
in the Programme be offered or where every such motion has been

(61)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

disposed of, the question shall be proposed from the Chair “That the sum
of Rupees......................for programme ..................” (or “That the
reduced sum of Rupees.....................for Programme...................”)
“be inserted in the Schedules”. Once that question has been proposed
from the Chair, no further debate on individual Projects or Objects in that
Programme shall be permitted.

(9) Notwithstanding anything in Standing Order 28, motions for the
reduction of any Programme, Project or Object shall require notice.

EXCESSES

131. (1) No motion in respect of a grant of money for the service of a
financial year already ended (hereinafter referred to as “an Excess”) shall
be entertained except in the circumstances set out in paragraph (5) of this
Standing Order.

(2) It shall be an order to the Committee on Public Accounts that they do
examine any Excess on any Project of a Programme and state in their report
whether the Excess is on the Programme or only on one or more Projects of
that Programme.

(3) If the Excess is on one or more Projects only, the Committee shall
inquire whether the Excess was incurred with proper authority and with due
regard to economy and if satisfied shall report accordingly and no further
sanction for that Excess shall be required:

Provided that, on any Excess on any personal emoluments project
the Committee shall also satisfy themselves that the expenditure was
in accordance with the existing salary scale and involved no element of
personal favouritism and if so satisfied shall report accordingly.

(4) If the Committee on Public Accounts is not satisfied they shall report
that they have disallowed the Excess or so much of the Excess they think fit.

(5) Whenever the Committee on Public Accounts has reported either
that an Excess has been incurred on a Programme or that they have
allowed certain items of expenditure, a motion to resolve Parliament into a
Committee to consider a grant to make good such an Excess or such items
which have been disallowed may be put on the Order Paper by the Minister
in charge of the subject of Finance for consideration on a day to be agreed
by that Minister:

(62)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Provided that, no such motion shall be entertained after the 31st December
of the year next but one after that to which the Excess relates.

(6) Nothing in this Standing Order shall diminish the power of the
Committee on Public Accounts to disallow any item of expenditure,
whether or not an Excess is involved, incurred without proper authority and
the procedure set out in paragraph (5) of this Standing Order shall apply to
any such disallowance.

132. (1) No motion, in respect of any Advance Account Activity, the
maximum limits of which are exceeded or the minimum limits of which are
not complied with in a manner authorized by law (hereinafter referred to
as “non-compliance with Advance Account Limits”) in any Financial year,
will be entertained except in the circumstances set out in paragraph (4) of
this Standing Order.

(2) It shall be an order to the Committee on Public Accounts that they do
examine every instance, reported by the Auditor-General of the maximum
limits of an Advance Account Activity being exceeded, or a minimum limit
of an Advance Account Activity not being complied with. The Committee
shall determine whether the non-compliance with Advance Account
Activity Limits, is in accordance with the law. Where the reported non-
compliance with Advance Accounts Limits is not in accordance with the
law, the Committee on Public Accounts shall determine whether such non-
compliance with Advance Accounts Limits should be authorized or not.

(3) It shall be an order to the Committee on Public Accounts that they do
examine any unauthorized working losses on Advance Accounts Activities
where such losses have not been settled in full before the end of the financial
year to which such losses relate, and which have been reported by the
Auditor-General in his Report to Parliament.

(4) Whenever the Committee on Public Accounts has recommended whether
or not any non-compliance with the limits on any Advance Account Activity
should be authorized or when the Committee has recommended whether
or not unauthorized losses in any Advance Account Activity should be
authorized, a motion to resolve Parliament into a Committee to consider such
recommendations may be put on the Order Paper by the Minister in charge of
the subject of Finance for consideration on a date to be agreed by that Minister.

(63)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

PUBLIC MONEY

133. Parliament shall not proceed upon the consideration of any motion,
Bill or amendment thereto authorizing disposal or imposition of charges
upon the Consolidated Fund or other funds of the Republic or the imposition
of any tax or the repeal, augmentation or reduction of any tax for the time
being in force unless introduced by a Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers
who shall, before making such motion, introducing such Bill or moving such
amendment, signify to Parliament the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers
to such motion, Bill or amendment. An indication on the Order Paper of
Parliament that “Cabinet approval is signified” shall be deemed sufficient in
compliance to this requirement.

AMENDMENT OF STANDING ORDERS

134. Any Member may give a notice of motion for the amendment of
the Standing Orders. Such notice shall be accompanied by a draft of the
proposed amendment and the motion when proposed and seconded shall
stand referred to without any question being proposed thereon to the
Committee on Standing Orders and no further proceedings shall be taken
on any such motion until the Committee on Standing Orders has reported
thereon.

SUSPENSION OF STANDING ORDERS

135. Any one or more of the Standing Orders may be suspended on a
motion made after notice by a majority of Members of Parliament at any
meeting to enable any special business to be considered or disposed of:

Provided that, a motion under this Standing Order unless proposed by a
Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers shall be decided by a division and shall
be declared lost if it appears that less than twenty Members of Parliament
voted in the majority in support of such motion.

GENERAL AUTHORITY OF THE SPEAKER

136. The Speaker shall have the power to regulate the conduct of Business
in Parliament in any matter not provided for in these Standing Orders.

137. (1) The Speaker may suspend a sitting or adjourn Parliament if the
Speaker thinks it is necessary to do so to maintain order.

(2) Whenever the Speaker suspends a sitting, the Speaker shall decide
when the sitting shall resume. Whenever the Speaker adjourns Parliament it
stands adjourned until its next Sitting Day.

(64)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

138. The Speaker shall be responsible for the management of buildings,
security arrangements and the general administration of the Chamber.

139. Anything which by these Standing Orders may be done by the
Speaker may also be done by the Deputy Speaker or Deputy Chairperson of
Committees or by a Member elected by the Parliament to preside in the seat
of the Speaker subject to the provisions of Article 159 of the Constitution.

PANEL OF CHAIRS

140. The Speaker shall nominate at the commencement of every Session
of Parliament, a Panel of Chairs of not less than four Members to act as
temporary Chair of Committees when requested by the Deputy Speaker
or in the absence of the Deputy Speaker, by the Deputy Chairperson of
Committees and may vary the constitution of the Panel, from time to time.
Anything which may be done by the Deputy Speaker may also be done by
a temporary Chair when presiding in place of the Deputy Speaker.

NO LEGAL REPRESENTATION BY MEMBERS

141. No Member of Parliament shall appear before Parliament or before
any Committee thereof as an Attorney-at-Law for any party or in any
capacity for which such Member of Parliament is to receive a fee or reward.

EXPENSES OF WITNESSES AND EXPERTS

142. (1) The sum to be paid or tendered for the expenses of any person
who is summoned to attend or to produce any document shall be the sum
which, if that person were a witness attending Court, would be payable to
such person in accordance with the regulations for the time being in force.

(2) Where services of any expert or any technical personnel is required
by the Parliamentary Committees, such service providers shall be paid such
remuneration as determined by the Parliamentary Staff Advisory Committee
in lieu of the services provided by them.

RESIDUARY POWERS

143. Every matter not specifically provided for in these Standing Orders
and every question relating to the detailed working of these Standing Orders
shall be regulated in such manner as the Speaker may deem appropriate and
direct, from time to time.

sk sk ste ste ss skeoskeo sk sk skies skoskosk skeosk

(65)




Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Index

ADJOURNMENT OF PARLIAMENT
Convening Parliament during an adjournment
First Day of Meeting after a General Election
Grave disorder, Arising of
Matter of Urgent Public Importance, discussion of
Meaning
Without Question put (by the Speaker)

ADVANCE ACCOUNT

AMENDMENTS
Amendments, to
Bill, Proposed for
Bills Affecting Disposal of Public Money
Clauses of the Bill

Committee

Reported from Committees (Special,
Oversight or Standing)
Question

Questions Proposed from the Chair

Rules

Standing Orders

Title of the Bill
ANTICIPATION

Appropriation Bill
APPROPRIATION BILL

(See under Bills)

ATTORNEY-GENERAL

Amendments Proposed, Examine

Not Consider as a ‘Stranger’

Private Members’ Bill, Opinion on
BACKBENCHER COMMITTEE

Chair

Duties

Debate, Importance, etc.

Time
Date
Members
Powers

(67)

Standing Order

15
8(4),9,11, 12
132

43(9), 44(5)
43(3)
133

61, 63, 64
72(2)

43(4)-(8)
43,44
43(5)
134
66(4)

42

75(6)

75

43(3)
21(4)
52(3)
126
126(5)
126(6)
126(9)
126(10)
126(11)
126(2)(3)(4)
126(7)

Page

32
8,9

4,5,6
63

20

64

29

19,20
19,20
19,20
64
27
19

29,30


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Index

BILLS
Amendments
Committees
Title
Clauses
Appropriation

Procedure in Committee of Whole Parliament
on schedules
Allotted Days

Certificate
Committee Reports
Committee Stage
First Reading
Legislative Standing Committee
List III of the Ninth Scheduled to the Constitution
Money Related Bills, presentation of
Preamble
Presentation
Principle shall not be discussed in Committee
Private Members’ Bills
Advertising
Attorney-General, opinion of
First Reading, leave being granted
Objectives, setting of
Place on the Order Paper
Publishing in the Gazette
Report
Procedure in Committee
Refer to Committee of the Whole Parliament
Second Reading
Sectoral Oversight Committee, refer to
Supreme Court
Determination
Petitions
Third Reading

(68)

Standing Order
No.

63, 72(2)
722)
66(4)
61, 64
130

75
74
67-70
57, 58
50
53(3)(4)
51(1)
133
66(3)
50

62
52,53
53(1)(2)
52(3)
52(6)
52(1)
52(5)
52(4)(5)
52(7)
59-66
57
55,56
50(2)

55(2)(b)
55(2)
71-73

Page

27,29
29
27
27
61, 62

29,30
29
28
26
2
25
23
64
27
2
27
23-25
24
23,24
24
23
24
24
24
27
26
25,26
2

26

28,29


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Index
Standing Order ~~ Page
No.
BUSINESS OF PARLIAMENT
Broadcast
Using Radio, Television or any other               14(1)              7
electronic means or devices
Conducting Order                                                         22                      10
Interruption                                             8(3)(5), 29      4,14
Language                                                                                      13                           6
Meetings
Adjournment (see under Adjournment)
Days and time                                                 8(1)-(4)            4
First after General Election                            1                    1
Hansard, recorded in                                                 13                        6
Hours, extension of                                     8(7)               5
President, summoned by the                             8(2)                 4
Prime Minister, on the request by the                16                  7
Opposed by any Member                                       8(6)                5
Precedence, First Friday of each month                   24(1)              11
Proceedings to be exempted                               9                  5
Public Business                                                                      23                          10,11
Undisposed of at the adjournment                          25                  12
CHAIRS, PANEL OF                                                 140                  65
CLOSURE
Motion ‘That the Question be now put’                    46                  21
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE PARLIAMENT 93-99             38,39
Appointment by a resolution                                      93                     38
Bills referring to                                                   57                   26
Chair, Casting Vote by the                                      96                   39
Chair, preside as                                                94                 39
Deal only with the matters refer to it by Parliament 98                  39
Minutes                                                    10(1), 99        5,39
Notice of Motion, exceptions                             28(a) (¢)         13
Procedure                                                             59-66              27
Reporting                                                             67                   28
Rules regarding Procedure                                      97                   39
Select Committee Report, reference of (Notice not  28(c)              13
needed)
Voting                                                                 95                   39

(69)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Index
Standing Order ~~ Page
No.
COMMITTEE ON CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS 123                     55
Chair                                                                                                                             123(1)                        55
Members                                      123(1)        55
Powers                                                                                           123(3)(4)             55
Quorum                                                                                        123(2)                  55
Report                                                                                           123(3)                  55
COMMITTEE ON ETHICS AND PRIVILEGES ~~ 114(1)(d), 118 48, 50
Directions                                                                                     118(8)                  50
Experts and witnesses services of                           118(5)             50
Functions                                                                                      118(2)                  50
Making Rules                                                                   118(7)                50
Members                                                                               118(1)                 50
Powers                                                                                           118(3)                  50
Reports                                                                                          118(3)(6)             50
Sanctions                                                                                      118(6)                  50
Violation of the Rules of the Code of Conduct          118(4)            50
COMMITTEE ON HIGH POSTS                                 114(1)(k), 124 48, 55,56
Examine the suitability                                       124(2)(3)        55
Functions                                                                                      124(2)                  55
Members                                                                               124(1)                 55
Powers                                                                                           124(4)(5)             56
Quorum                                                                                        124(6)                  56
COMMITTEE ON PARLIAMENTARY BUSINESS 114(1) (a) 48,49
Chairman, Members, Duties, Minutes                    115               49
COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC ACCOUNTS                      114(1)(g), 119 51
Duty                                                                                                    119(2)                   51
Members                                                                               119(1)                 51
Minister’s observation and steps taken                     119(4)             51
Powers                                                                                               119(6)                   51
Quorum                                                                                             119(7)                   51
Report                                                                                                119(3)(4)             51
Sub-Committees                                                                            119(5)                   51
COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC ENTERPRISES           114(1)(h), 120 48, 52
Duty                                                                                               12002)                  52
Members                                                                               120(1)                 52
Observations and steps taken, Ministers in charge ~~ 120(4)           52
Powers                                                                                           120(6)                  52

(70)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Index
Standing Order ~~ Page
No.
Quorum                                                                                        120(7)                  52
Report                                                                                           120(3)(4)             52
Sub-Committees                                                                        120(5)                  52
COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC FINANCE                         114(1)(1), 121 48,53
Chair                                                                                                                        121(1)                       53
Duty                                                                                                                1212)                     53
Interim Report                                                                                    121(7)                    53
Quorum                                                                                                        121(6)                     53
Report                                          121(3)(4)(5) 53
COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC PETITIONS                          114(1)(G), 122 48,54-55
Duty                                                                                               122(2)                  54
Members                                      122(1)        54
Minister’s observations                                                   122(6)(7)           54
Ombudsman Report                                                                 122(4)                  54
Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration,        122(3)               54
refer to
Public Petitions                                  30            14, 15
Question /examine                                                                    122(9)                  54,55
Quorum                                                                                                  122(10)                 55
Sub-Committees                                                                        122(8)                  54
COMMITTEE ON STANDING ORDERS                  114(1)(b), 116 48, 49
Duties, Chairperson, Members                                   116                  49
COMMITTEES
Constitutional Affairs                                                               123                        55
Liaison                                         125           56,57
Select                                         100-110       39,40
Sectoral Oversight                                                                 111                       40-46
Special Purposes                                                                        114                        48-49
Backbencher                                                                     126                        57
Ethics and Privileges                                           118                   50
High posts                                 124           55,56
House                                                                                  117                        49
Legislative Standing                                               113                     47,48
Ministerial Consultative                                               112                        46,47
Parliamentary Business                                          115                     49
Public Accounts                                                               119                        51
Public Enterprises                                                     120                      52

(71)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Index

Public Finance
Public Petitions
Selection
Standing Orders
Whole Parliament
COMMITTEES GENERAL BUSINESS
Appropriation Bill, procedure on Schedules to
Bill, Procedure on
General Rules:
Powers

Relevant Minister’s response
Report
Secretary-General
Sit outside
Stranger admission
Sub-Committee
Sub-Committee Quorum
Reports
Resignation or removal by Chairman
Announcement by the Speaker
No Confidence Motion
Resolution
Secretary-General, responsibilities
Select Committee Report, presenting of a
Witnesses’ evidence before the Committee
DEBATE
Anticipation

Order of the Day, Notice of Motion or
Amendment of Which Notice has been
given, not Allowed to Debate

Questions for Debate
Rules
Members Speaking

No Member may speak to any question after
the same has been fully put by the Speaker

No Member shall speak more than once

(72)

Standing Order
No.

121
122
114
116
93-99

130
59-66
128
128(9) (10)

(13)
128(7)

128(5)
128(1)
128(8)
128(10)
128(2)(3)
128(3)
67-70
129
129(1)
129(2)(4)
12903)
10(5)
69

54

42
42(2)

39-41
86-90
91
89

86

Page

53
54,55
48,49
49
38,39

61
27
58-60
59, 60

59
59
58
59
59,60
59
59
28
60-61
60
60,61
60

28
25

19
19

18
35,36
36,37
36

35


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Index

President, Acting President, Members of

Question debated and disposed of, not allow to

Parliament, Judges, ef al personal conduct
shall not be raised except upon a substantive

motion

propose again in the same Session
Second a motion or amendment without
prejudice to his right to speak at a later

period of the debate
DEBATE, ADJOURNMENT

Motion

DEPUTY CHAIRPERSON OF COMMITTEES

Election

Procedure

General Authority
DEPUTY SPEAKER

Election

Procedure

General Authority
DIVISIONS

By Name

By rising, row by row

By Voices

Division bell

Electronic voting system

Inaccurate /errors
ELECTION

Deputy Chairperson of Committees

Procedure
Deputy Speaker

Procedure
(Election) of a President

Ballot Papers, Secret Ballot
Speaker

Ballot Papers, destruction of

by Lot
by Secret Ballot
Procedure

(73)

Standing Order
No.

83

90

17
6
1(e),6(1)
6(2)

139

6
1(d),6(1)
6(2)

139

472) (c)
47(2) (a)
47(1)
472) (c)
47(2) (b)
48, 49

1(e),6(1)
6(2)
1(d),6(1)
6(2)

7

1(a)

4(g)

4(f) (ii) (iii)
4(c)

4

Page

33

36

36

7,8
3-4
1,3

65
3-4
1,3
65
22
21
21
22
21
22
1,3

1,3

2,3

2,3


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Index
Standing Order ~~ Page
No.
EXCESSES                                                                                       131                        62
GOVERNMENT BUSINESS                                                23(3)(4)               11

(see under Public Business)
HANSARD (Official Report of Parliamentary

Debates)
Expunctions of word or statements                        82(2)(b)          33
Language and Recording                                       13                  6
HOUSE COMMITTE                                                         117                     49
Chair and Members                                                                      117(1)                   49
Function                                                                                       117(2)                  49
Minutes                                                                                         117(2)                  49
INTERPRETATION
Arrangements                                                                             13(b)                     6
“JUDGE”
Meaning                                                                                       83(2)                     33
LEGISLATIVE STANDING COMMITTEE
Bills, Procedure                                                                  53(4)                   25
Procedure                                                                   59-66                  27
Recommitted                                                             70                        28
Reference                                                                          53(3)                     25
Chair, Casting Vote                                                      113(6)               47
Co-opted Members                                                          113(2)                47
Duty                                                                                               113(4)(5)             47
Member in charge of the Bill, right to work as a         113(7)             47,48
Member
Members                                                                               113(1)                 47
Minutes                                                                                         113(8)                  48
Powers                                                                                           113(5)                  47
Proceed during conclusion of a Session                   113(8)             48
Quorum                                                                                        113(3)                  47
Report                                                                                           113(8)                  48
Consideration                                                            70                        28
Presentation                                                               68                        28
LIASION COMMITTEE                                                     125                      56,57
Duties                                          12503)        56
Meetings, summon                                                           125(4)                57
Members                                                                                       12502)                  56
Powers                                                                                           125(5)                  57

(74)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic

MACE

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Index

Come into contact or lift
MATTERS NOT ALLOWED TO DEBATE

Before Motions or Amendments duly seconded

Election of a Speaker

Matters of a personal nature

Oral Questions
Point of Order

Strangers, withdrawal of

MEMBERS

Naming and suspension

Committee

Notice not required

Parliament

Suspension

No legal representation by Members
Official Oath or Affirmation

Personal explanation

Rules

During debate

Not speaking

Objectionable words usage

Parliament’s right to deal with when rule do

not provide
Speaking
Seat allocation

Suspension of service

Withdrawal from Parliament

MESSAGE
President

MINISTERIAL CONSULTATIVE COMMITTEES

Duty
Meetings
Members
Powers
Rules

(75)

Standing Order

No.
77(3)

87
4(b)
91(j)
34(2)
76(1)
21(2)

77

77(6)
28(e)
772)
772)

141
1(c)5(1)(3)
27(8)

86-90
92
82
82

91
3

77
80

22(2)

112, 114(1)
1122)
112(4)(5)
112(1)
112(6)
112(7)

Page

31

35

37
16
30

31
31
13
31
31
65
1,3
13

35,36
38
32,33
32

36, 37
1

31

32

10
46,47,48
47
47
46
47
47


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Index
Standing Order ~~ Page
No.
MINISTERIAL STATEMENT                                               27(7)                     13
MINUTES
Committee of the Whole Parliament                       99                  39
Errors                                                                                             10(2)                     5
House                                                                                            117(2)                  49
Legislative Standing                                                        113(8)                48
Parliamentary Business                                                   115                     49
Secretary-General, duties                                            10(1)(2)(4)       5-6
Select Committee                                                             110                     40
MOTION
Adjournment (see under adjournment)                    20                  9
Closure                                                                                         46                          21
Decided without debates or amendments
Closure                                                                               46(4)                     21
Excepted from the provisions of Standing        9                   5
Order 8
Government Business, precedence for              23(4)              11
Member suspended from the service of           77(1)              31
Parliament
Papers presented, printing of                        26(4)              12
Dilatory                                       8(5),17,18     4,7,8
Matter of Public Interest                                        39,40,41           18
Lapse                                                                                             40                           18
Notices                                                                     27                     12
Order Book, include in                                                        27(3)                    12,13
Private Members’                                                        24                     11
Privileges                                                                 29                     14
Right to propose                                                   39                   18
Sitting hours, extension of                                  8(7)               5
Withdrawal                                                                                  27(6)                     13
NEWS MEDIA
Granting permission and revoking                                  21(5)                   10
NOTICES
Ministerial statement                                                               27(7)                     13
Personal explanation                                                                27(8)                     13
Public Business                                                                23(1)                  10
Exception                                                                                    28,130(9)             13,14,62
Question and Motion                                            27                   12-14

(76)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Index
Standing Order
No.

OFFICIAL OATH or AFFIRMATION

Members                                                                                      1(c),5(1)

Sign the Book                                                       512)

Speaker                                                                                         1(a),5(1)
OMBUDSMAN (Parliamentary Commissioner for
Administration)

Removal from office                                              85

Report, Committee on Public Petitions                   122(4)
ORDER

Parliament/ Committees                                  76-82
ORDER BOOK

All motions, except ruled out of order                     27(3)

Private Members’ Motions, including of                24(2)

Question, including of                                      27(2)

Preparation, showing all Business                         1003)
ORDERS OF THE DAY

Consideration                                                       23
ORDER PAPER

Private Members’ motion                                      52(5)

Publishing                                                                                    13(a)
PAPERS PRESENTED

Notice not required                                                 26(4),28

Presentation, tabled and printing                          26
PARLIAMENT

‘Precincts’                                                            80

Buildings, security arrangements, management         138

Contact with the Mace or lift the Mace, grave           77(3)

disorder

PERSONAL EXPLANATION                                        27(8)
PETITION, PUBLIC                                                30
POINT OF ORDER

Not allow to debate                                           76(1)

Raising of                                                    92(2)
PRECEDENCE

Private Members’ Business                                   24(1)

Privileges Matter, motion on                                29

Public Business                                                    23(3)(4)

(77)

Page

1,3
3
1,3

34,35
54

30-33

12,13
11
12

10,11

24

12,13
12

32
65
31

13
14,15

30
38

11
14
11


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Index

PRESIDENT, ELECTION OF A
Ballot Papers, Secret Ballot
PRIVATE MEMBERS
Bills
Motions
Chronological Order, included in Order Book
First Friday of each month
‘Private Member’, Members not include in
PUBLIC BUSINESS
QUESTION PUT BY THE CHAIR
Closure
Question fully put
Amendments
QUESTIONS
Adjournment
Amended by the Speaker
Answers
Not be made pretext for a debate
Oral and Written Questions
Time allocation
Business Order
Disallow by the Speaker
Matter of Urgent Public Importance, asking of
Withdrawal
Oral
Prime Minister, questions to the
Date and time
Number of questions
Number of words
Supplementary questions
Purpose
Relevant rules
Supplementary
Speaker, disallow by
Written
Notices
Order Book, include in

(78)

Standing Order

No.

52,53
24
24(2)
24(1)
24(3)
23

46
89
43,44,45

20
372)

34(2)
32(5)

35

22(7) (11)
37(1)
27(2)
27(6)
32(D(2)(3)
38

38(1)
38(1)
38(5)
38(7)
34(1)

36

33

33(1)
32(5)
27(1)(2)
27(2)

Page

23, 24
11
11
11
11
10,11

21
36
19,20

17

16
15
16
10
17
12
13
15
17,18
17
17
18
18
16
16,17
15,16
16
15
12
12


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Index
Standing Order ~~ Page
No.
QUORUM
Committees for Special Purposes                               114                  48
Not Present, procedure
Committee of the Whole Parliament                 12                   6
Division bells                                                        11                      6
Parliament                                                                  11                        6
Select Committees                                                         105                    40
Sub-Committees                                                                        128(3)                  59
REMOVAL FROM OFFICE                                         84                     33-35
Auditor-General                                                                  85                        34,35
Commissioner-General of Elections                           85                    34,35
Judges                                                                                   84                        33,34
Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration       85                 34,35
(Ombudsman)
Secretary-General of Parliament                             85                  34,35
REPORTS
Committees on Bills                                           67-70             28
Hansard                                                                                        13                          6
Legislative Standing Committee                                113(8)              48
Liaison Committee                                                           125(5)                57
Ministerial Consultative Committee                              112(4)                47
Ombudsman                                                                                122(4)                  54
Private Member ’s Bills                                       52(7)              24
Public Accounts Committee                                             119(4)                51
Public Finance Committee                                                            121(5)                    53
Appropriation Bill, Estimates                                          121(4)                    53
Interim                                                                                              121(7)                     53
Sectoral Oversight Committee                                              111(16)                44
Select Committee                                                          102                    39
Special Purposes Committees                                         114(2)                49
Constitutional Affairs                                                    123(3)                  55
Ethics and Privileges                                            118(3)(6)           50
High Posts                                                                      124(5)                 56
Public Enterprises                                                     120(4)                52
Public Petitions                                                          122(6)                54
Standing Orders Committee                               116                  49

(79)


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Index

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA CONSOLIDATED
FUND

Imposition/ disposal of charges
RULES

Debate

Order

Speaking / not speaking in Parliament
SECRETARY-GENERAL

Duties

Removal from office
SECTORAL OVERSIGHT COMMITTEES

Additional Committee

Annual calendar

Appointment

Chair, election of

Evidence, calling for

General oversight responsibilities

Inquires

Meetings / additional meetings

Members eligibility

Members, nomination of

Members, removal of

Membership, deemed to have vacated

Number

Oversight Plan

Powers

Primary Jurisdiction

Report

Reservation appended to Report

Review and study

Sub-Committees

Subject matter, refer to related

Subjects and Functions
SELECT COMMITTEES
Chair
Chair, vote
Deemed to have vacated membership

(80)

Standing Order
No.

133

86-90
76
91,92

10

85

111, 114(1)
111(14)(15)
111(17)
111(1)
111(23)
111(27)
111(6)
111(2)(8)
111(18)
111(19)(20)
111(21)
111(22)(a)
111(24)
111(1)
111(9)(10)
111(4)(28)
111(13)(14)
111(16)
111(29)
111(7)(1)
111(25)
111(11)(12)

(13)
1113)

100-110
103
107
106

Page

64

35-36
30
36-38

5-6
34,35
40,46,48
44
44
40,41
45

46

41
41,42
44
44.45
45

45

46
40,41
42,43
41,46
43,44
44
46

41

46
43,44

41
39,40
39
40
40


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Index

Dissolution
Hear evidence and reporting to Parliament
Meet during adjourned Parliament
Meeting, time and places
Member appointment
Members
Minutes of evidence
Parliament instructions
Powers
Quorum
Report
Scope
Vacancy
SELECTION, COMMITTEE OF
Chairman and Members
Consideration
SHEDULES
(see under Bills and Appropriation Bill)
SPEAKER
Casting Vote
Committee
Parliament
Consent, matter of urgent public importance
Election
Procedure
Official Oath or Affirmation

Rulings not be reviewed except upon substantive
motion
Vacancy

Powers
Adjournment of Parliament / suspension of
Sittings
Call on the Member who first catches his eye
Dilatory Motions
Live broadcast, order to discontinue
Naming and suspending of Member
News media, permission to

Order and direct Members when speak

(81)

Standing Order
No.

109
108
109
104
103
101
110
102
108
105
69
102
106
114
114(2)
114(1)

96
47(3)
19(2)
1(a)
4(a)- (2)
1(b)
76(1)

2

81

91(d)

17

78, 82(2)(a)
77,79(2)
21(5)

91(g)

Page

40
40
40
40
39
39
40
39
40
40
28
39
40
48
49
48


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Index

Parliamentary Buildings, security

arrangements, management

Power to regulate the conduct of Business in
Parliament in any matter not provided for in

Standing Orders

Select Committee Chairman and Members,

appointment

Select Committee vacancies, appointment of

Members for
Speeches, discontinue of

Sub Judice matter references, not allowed
Time allocation among Members

Unparliamentarily words/ statement to be

expunged from Hansard

Withdraw from Parliament, order to

Members
Strangers
Duties

Adjourn Parliament without question put
Business be exempted from the provisions

of Standing Order 8
Closure

During an adjournment, convening Parliament
on the request by the Prime Minister

Election

Deputy Speaker and Deputy Chairperson

of Committees
No Quorum

In case of grave disorder

Responsible for Rules of Order

Seat allotment for Members
Suitable arrangements for MPs who do not

understand the language

SPECIAL PURPOSES COMMITTEES,

PROCEDURE
Casting Vote

Chair

Deemed to have vacated membership

Meetings
Procedure
Quorum
Vacancy

(82)

Standing Order
No.

138

136, 143

103
106

78
91(f)
91(0)
82(2)(b)

79(1)
21(2)(3)

8(4),9

46
16

6(2)

11
81
76
3(2)
13

127

127(2)
127(1)
127(7)
127(5)
127

127(4)
127(3)

Page
65

64,65

39
40

32
36
37
32,33

32

4,5

21

32
30

58

58
58
58
58
58
58
58


Standing Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic

SPEECHES

Discontinue the speech due to irrelevance
Interpretation
Recorded in Hansard
STANDING ORDERS
Amendments
Committee
Suspension
STRANGERS
Admission to Committees
Attorney-General, not consider as a ‘Stranger
Present in the Chamber
Withdrawal of strangers
absence of notice
SUPREME COURT

Determination

Petitions
TAX

Imposition

VOTING

Deciding Vote
Chair of a Committee

Chair of the Committee of Whole Parliament
Speaker

WITNESS

Evidence before Committee

Expenses

Procedure to examine the evidence

WITNESSES AND EXPERTS, EXPENCES OF

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Standing Order
No.

78
13(b)
13

134
116
135

128(10)
21(4)
21(1)
21,28(d)
213)

55(2)(b)
55(2)

133

107, 113(6),
127(2)
95, 96

4703)

54,108

142
54(2)(3),108
142

Page

32

64
49
64

59,60
10

9,10,13

26
26

64

39, 40,
47, 58
39

22

25,40
65
25,40

65




