 

 

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

 

~ PARLIAMENT (POWERS AND PRIVILEGES)
ACT

 

(Incorporating Amendments up to 31st December, 1999)

 

 

PUBLISHED BY THE PARLIAMENT SECRETARIAT


Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act

[Chapter 383

 

AN ACT TO DECLARE AND DEFINE THE PRIVILEGES, IMMUNITIES
AND POWERS OF PARLIAMENT AND OF THE MEMBERS THEREOF ;
TO SECURE FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND DEBATE OR PROCEEDINGS
IN PARLIAMENT ; TO PROVIDE FOR THE PUNISHMENT OF BREACHES
OF THE PRIVILEGES OF PARLIAMENT; AND TO GIVE PROTECTION
TO PERSONS EMPLOYED IN THE PUBLICATION OF THE REPORTS,
PAPERS, MINUTES, VOTES OR PROCEEDINGS OF PARLIAMENT.

(Law No. 5 of 1978       —      2nd February 1978)
(Act No. 170f 1980  — 17th April 1980)

{Act No. 25 of 1984      —      29th June 1984)

(Act No. 37 of 1987     oe      23rd September 1987)
(Act No. 27 of 1997      es      21st October 1997)

[7th April, 1953.]

1. This Act may be cited as the Parliament (Powers and
Privileges) Act.

2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requries:—

“Clerk” means the Secretary-General  of Parliament ;

“committee” means any standing, select or other
committee of Parliament ;

“Parliament” means the Parliament of Sri Lanka, and
includes a committee ;

“member” means a member of Parliament and includes the
President, the Speaker and any member presiding in
Parliament or in committee;

1

PL 009136 - 300 (201 5/07) Department of Government Printing

Act, No. 21 of 1953
Law, No. 5 of 1978
Aci, No. 17 of 1980
Aci, No. 25 of 1984
Act, No. 37 of 1987
Act, No. 27 of 1997

Short title.

Interpretation.


Chapter 383]

Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act

 

Freedom of

speech and
debate.

Freedom from
arrest in civil
proceedings.

Members not
liable to action in
certain cases,

“officer of Parliament” means any person who may from
time to time be appointed to the staff of Parliament,
whether permanently or temporarily, and includes the
Clerk and any police officer on duty within the
precincts of Parliament ;

“President” or “Speaker” includes the member for the time
being presiding over Parliament.

PART I

PriviLEGES, IMMUNITIES AND POWERS GENERALLY, AND
SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS

3. There shall be freedom of speech, debate and
proceeding in Parliament and such freedom of speech, debate
or proceedings shall not be liable to be impeached or
questioned in any court or place out of Parliament.

4. No member shall be liable to any civil or criminal
proceedings, arrest, imprisonment, or damages by reason of
anything which he may have said in Parliament or by reason
of any matter or thing which he may have brought before
Parliament by petition, bill, resolution, motion or otherwise.

5. [Except for a contravention of this Act, no member shall
be liable to arrest, detention, or molestation in respect of any
debt or matter which may be the subject of civil proceeding
while proceeding to, or in attendance at, or returning from,
any meeting or sitting of Parliament :

Provided that any person otherwise entitled to any
immunity or privilege under this section who shall be deemed
to have committed any act of insolvency may be dealt with

under the Insolvency Ordinance as if he had not such immunity
or privilege.


Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act

[Chapter 383

 

6. No person shall be liable in damages or otherwise for

any act done under the authority of Parliament and within its
legal powers.

7. Parliament and the members thereof shall hold, enjoy
and exercise, in addition to the privileges, immunities and
powers conferred by this Act, such and the like immunities as
are for the time being held, enjoyed and exercised by the
Commons House of the Parliament of the United Kingdom
and by the members thereof.

8. Subject to the provisions of this Act, a copy of the
journals of the Commons House of the Parliament of the
United Kingdom, or of the proceedings of the said House, or
of a report of any committee of the said House, which has
been or purports to have been printed by the order of or by
the printer of the said House shall be received as prima facie
evidence without proof of its being such copy upon any inquiry
touching the privileges, immunities and powers of Parliament
or members thereof.

9. All privileges, immunities and powers of Parliament
shall be part of the general and public law of Sri Lanka, and it
shall not be necessary to plead the same, but the same shall in
all courts in Sri Lanka be judicially noticed.

10. Parliament, and any committee which is duly
authorized by an order of Parliament to send for persons,
papers and records, may order any person to attend before
Parliament or before such committee, and to produce any
paper, book, record or document in the possession or under
the control of such person.

11. Any order to attend or to produce documents before

Parliament or before any committee shall be notified to the
person required to attend or produce documents by a summons

3

Person not liable
in damages for
acts donc under
authority of

Parliament,

Immunities to be

the same as those
enjoyed by House
of Commons,

Commons
journals to be
prima facie
evidence in
inquiries touching
privileges.

Privileges to be
noticed judicially,

Power to order
attendance of
witnesses.

Attendance to be
notified by
Summons.


Chapter 383]

Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act

 

Witnesses may be

examined on oath.

Objection to
answer question
or 10 produce
papers to be
reported to
Parliament for
decision.

Penalty for
perjury before

Parliament or
commitice.

under the hand of the Clerk issued by direction of the President
or Speaker or the Chairman of the committee ; and in every
such summons there shall be stated the time when and the
place where the person summoned is required to attend and
the particular documents which he is required to produce,
and the summons shall be served on the person mentioned
therein, either by delivering to him a copy thereof or by leaving
a copy thereof at his usual or last known place of abode in
Sri Lanka with some adult person; and there shall be paid to
the person who attends on such summons, if he does not reside
within five miles of the Chamber of Parliament, such sum for
his expenses as may be prescribed by the President or Speaker.

. 12... Parliament or a committee thercof may require that
any facts, matters and things relating to the subject of inquiry
before Parliament or such committee be verified or otherwise
ascertained by the oral examination of witnesses, and may
cause any such witnesses to be examined upon oath or
affirmation, which the President or Speaker or the chairman
of the committee or person specially authorized for that
purpose may administer.

13. If any person ordered to attend or produce any paper,
book, record or document before Parliament or any committee
refuses to answer any question that may be put to him or to
produce any such paper, book, record or document on the
ground that the same is of a private nature and does not affect
the subject of the inquiry, the President or Speaker or the
Chairman of the committee or the presiding member (as the
case may be) may excuse the answering of such questions or
the production of such paper, book, record or document, or
may order the answering or production thereof.

14. Any person who—

(a) before Parliament or any committee (and whether
or not that person has been sworn or has made a

4


Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act

{Chapter 383

 

solemn affirmation or declaration), after being duly
cautioned as to his liability to punishment under this
section, intentionally gives a false answer to any
question material to the subject of inquiry which may
be put to him during the course of any examination ; or

(b) intentionally gives false evidence in the course of
any statement made by him for the purposes of
section 26 of this Act,

shall (in addition to any offence under Part I of this Act of
which he may be guilty) be guilty of an offence under
section 190 of the Penal Code.

No prosecution against such person for the offence under
section 190 of the Penal Code shall be instituted except by or
with the sanction of the Attorney-General.

15. Where any question arises in Parliament or any
committee as to whether or not a person summoned to give
evidence or to produce a document is entitled, in respect of
such evidence or the production of such document, to any
right or privilege, that question shall be determined according
to the practice in similar matters for the time being obtaining
in the Commons House of Parliament of the United Kingdom.

16. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), a
person who gives evidence before Parliament or a committee
shall not be liable to any civil or criminal proceedings by
reason of any thing which he may have said in such evidence.

(2) Except in proceeding referred to in subsection (3) no
statement made by any person in evidence given before
Parliament or a committee shall be admissible in evidence
against that person in any civil or criminal proceedings.

(3) Nothing in the preceding provisions of this section
shall prevent or be deemed to prevent the institution or
maintenance of any proceedings against any person for an

5

Application of
practice of House
of Commons as to
privileged
evidence.

Immunity of
witnesses in
respect of
evidence,


Chapter 383]

Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act

 

Evidence of
proceedings in
Parliament or
committee not to
be given without

leave.

Matter printed by
order of
Parliament to be
admitted os
evidence.

Protection for
publication of
reports &c..
published under
the authority of

Parliament and for

publication of
copies thereof or
extracts
therefrom.

(§ 2. Act, No. 25
of 1984)

offence under section 190 of the Penal Code or for any offence
under this Act in respect of any evidence given by him before
Parliament or a committee.

17. No member or officer of Parliament and no shorthand
Writer employed to take minutes of evidence before the House
or any committee shall give evidence elsewhere in respect of
the contents of such cvidence or of the contents of any
manuscript or document laid before Parliament or any
committee or in respect of any proceedings or examination
had at the Bar or before any committee of Parliament without
the special leave of Parliament first had and obtained.

18. Upon any inquiry touching the privileges, immunities
and powers of Parliament or of any member. Any copy of the
minutes or proceedings of Parliament purporting to be printed
by the Government Printer shall be admitted as evidence of
such minutes or proceedings in all courts and places without
any proof being given that such copy was so printed.

19. (1) Any person, being a defendant in any civil or
criminal proceedings instituted for, or on account, or in respect
of, the publication by such person or his servant —

(a) of any report, paper, minute, votes or proceedings
being a report, paper, minute, votes or proceedings
published by order, or under the authority of
Parliament or any committee thereof ; or

(b) of a copy of any such report, paper, minute, votes
or proceedings,

may, on giving the plaintiff or the prosecutor twenty-four
hours notice of his intention—

(i) in the case of any civil or criminal proceedings in
respect of a publication referred to in paragraph (a)
bring before the court in which such proceedings
are being held a certificate under the hand of the

6


Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act

[Chapter 383

 

Speaker or the Secretary-General of Parliament
stating that the report, paper, minute, votes or
proceedings in respect of which such proceedings
have becn instituted were published by such person
or his servant by order or under the authority of
Parliament or any committee thereof ; or

(ii) in the case of any civil or criminal proceedings in
respect of a publication referred to in paragraph (5),
lay before the court in which such proceedings are
being held, the copy in respect of which such
proccedings have been instituted and the report,
paper, minute, votes or proceedings of which it
purports to be a copy, together with an affidavit
verifying such report, paper, minute, votes or
proceedings and the correctness of such copy,

and such court shall thereupon immediately stay such civil
or criminal proceeding and the same and every process
issued therein shall be deemed to be finally determined.

(2) No person shall be liable to any civil or criminal
proceedings for, or on account, or in respect, of the publication,
bona fide and without malice, by such person or his servant:

(a) of any extract from, or abstract of, any report, minute,
votes or proceedings, published by order, or under
the authority, of Parliament or any committee thereof;

(b) of a fair and accurate report of any proceedings of
Parliament, being a proceeding, the publication of
which has been authorized by Parliament.

(3) For the purpose of this scction, the expression “civil or
criminal proceedings” includes any procecding for the
punishment of contempt of the Supreme Court, or the Court
of Appeal, or the High Court or any other Court, tribunal or

institution.


Chapter 383]

Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act

 

Regulation of
admittance of
strangers.

Person disturbing
proceedings of
Parliament may be
arrested without
warrant.

Breaches of
privilege.

20. (1) No stranger shall be entitled, as of right, to enter
or to remain within Parliament or its precincts.

(2) The President or Speaker is herby authorized to issue
such orders as he may in his discretion deem necessary for
the regulation of the admittance of strangers to the House or
its precincts, and for the manitenance of order and decorum

therein.

(3) Copies of orders made by the President or Speaker
under this scction shall be duly authenticated by the Clerk
and exhibited in conspicuous positions within the precincts
of Parliament ; and such copies, when so authenticated and
exhibited, shall be deemed to be sufficient notice to all persons
affected thereby.

(4) The President or Speaker may at any time order any
stranger to withdraw from Parliament or its precincts.

21. (1)Any person creating or joining in any disturbance
in Parliament or in the precincts during its actual sitting may
be arrested without warrant on the verbal or written order of
the President or Speaker, and may be kept in the custody of
an officer of Parliament pending the determination by
Parliament whether or not such person should be punished
for an offence under Part II, but no such person shall be kept
in custody after the termination of the sitting.

(2) All police officers, constables and other persons, are
hereby required to assist in the apprchension and detention
of any person in pursuance of any such order as aforesaid.

PART HI

BREACHES OF PRIVILEGE OF PARLIAMENT AND PUNISHMENT
THEREOF

22. (1) Each of the acts and omissions specificd in the
Schedule to this Act is hereby declared to be a breach of the
privileges of parliament.


Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act

[Chapter 383

 

(2) Every breach of the privileges of parliament which is
specified in the Schedule to this Act (whether in part A or
Part B thereof) shall be an offence under this Part punishable
by the Supreme Court under the provisions hereinafter
contained in that behalf,

(3) Every breach of the privileges of Parliament which is
specified in Part B of the Schedule to this Act and which is
committed in respect of, or in relation to, Parliament shall be
an offence under this Part punishable by Parliament under
the provisions contained in that behalf.

23. (1) Upon application made to the Supreme Court in
that behalf by the Attorney-General and supported by
evidence on affidavit, the court—

(a) may, if satisfied after persual of the application and
such evidence that any member or other person
appears to have committed any offence under this
Part, cause notice to be served on such member or
person calling upon him to show cause why he
should not be punished for that offence; and

may if no cause or no sufficient cause as aforesaid is
shown to the satisfaction of the court, after such
inquiry as the court may consider necessary, convict
him of the offence and sentence him to imprisonment
of either description for a term not exceeding two
years or to a fine.

b)

*(2) Omitted

24. The proceedings and the procedure to be followed
upon an application to the Supreme Cout under section 23
shall , subject to such rules if any as are hereby authorized to
be made for the purpose under Article 136 of the Constitution
be such as may be determined by the Chief Justice or the

* Vide Clause 3 of Act, No. 27 of 1997

 

9

(8 2(a), Law, No.
5 of 1978)

(§ 2, Act, No. 27
of 1997)

(§ 2, Law, No. 5
of 1978)

(§ 2, Act, No. 27
of 1997)

Jurisdiction of
Supreme Court in
cases of breaches
of privilege.

(§ 3. Act, No. 27
of 1997)

Procedure in the
Supreme Court.


Chapter 383]

Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act

 

Conditions
precedent to
making of
application to
Supreme Court.

Reference of cases
to Attomey -
General with
statements.

Pusnie Justice hearing the application; and in relation to
and for the purpose of such proceedings the Supreme Court
shall have the same powers, whether of compelling the
attendance of persons and the production of documents or
otherwise, as the court has in the exercise of its ordinary
jurisdiction.

25. (1) An application under section 23 may be made to
the Supreme Court by the Attorney-General in the case of
any alleged offence under this Part committed in respect of
or in relation to Parliament, only if —

(a) the Attorney-General has furnished a report to the
President or Speaker of Parliament stating that, in
the opinion of the Attorney-General, there is
sufficient evidence to warrant the taking of further
steps under this Act in that case, and

(b) Parliament, after consideration of such report, has
by resolution required the Attorney-General to make
the application.

(2) The making of an application under section 23 by the
Auorncy-General in any case, shall constitute conclusive
evidence that the application has been duly made in
accordance with the preceding provisions of this section.

26. (1) For the purpose of enabling the Attorney-General
to furnish a report in relation to any case of an alleged offence
under this Part, the President or the Speaker, as the case may
be, may:—

(a) onacomplaint of the alleged offence being made to
him in chamber by any member, or

(b) ifrequired so to do by resolution of Parliament, refer
the case to the Attorney-General for report.

10


Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act

[Chapter 383

 

(2) Where a case is to be referrd to the Attorney-General
under subsection (1) the President or the Speaker, or any other
member, if authorized in writing so to do by the President or
the Speaker, or the Clerk of Parliament if so authorized-

(a) shall record on oath or affirmation the statement of
the member making the complaint of the alleged
offence, and

(b) may record on oath or a affirmation the statement of
any other person whose evidence is or may be in the
opinion of the President or Speaker, relevant.

The statement of any person may be recorded under the
preceding provisions of this section at any time after the case
has been referred to the Attorney-General if the President or
the Speaker considers it necessary whether of his own motion
or at the request of the Attorney-General.

(3) The provisions of sections 10 to 13 shall apply in all
respects for the purpose of enabling statements to be recorded
under subsection (2) of this section in like manner as they
apply for the purpose of enabling evidence to be taken by a
committee, and for the purpose aforesaid the person authorized
by or under subsection (2) of this section to take such statement
shall have the same powers as are conferred by those sections
on a commitee or the chairman thereof,

(4) The provisions of sections 15 to 17 shall apply to and
in relation to uny evidence given for the purposes of subsection
(2) of this section.

(5) Notwithstanding anything in the preceding provisions
of this section, a person who is alleged to have committed an
offence under this Part shall not be bound or compelled
without his consent to make any statement under
subsection (2) in relation to that offence.

AI]
(I


Chapter 383]

Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act

 

Parliament’s
jurisdiction over
offences specified
in Part B of
Schedule.

(§ 3. Law. No. Sof
1978)

(§ 4. Act, No. 27 of
1997)

(§ 3, Law, No. 5 of
1978

(6) where a case is referred under subsection (1) to the
Attorney-General for report, the record of all statements taken
under subsection (2) shall be transmitted to the Attorney-
General, and the Attorney-General shall, after consideration
of such statements, report to the President or Speaker stating
whether there is, in the opinion of the Attorney-General,
sufficient evidence to warrant the taking of further steps under
this act in respect of an alleged offence under this Part; and
such report shall contain, for the information of Parliament, a
summary of the facts which in the opinion of the Attorney-
General, are capable of being proved upon the/evidence
contained in the statements.

27. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2) and
(3), Parliament shall have power and jurisdiction to punish
summarily any breach of the privileges of Parliament specified
in Part B of the Schedule to this Act which is committed in

respect of, or in relation (o, Parliament by any member or any
other person.

*(1A) Omitted

(2) Parliament shall not be competent to punish any
offence under this Part in any case which has been referred to
the Attorney-General as herein before provided, unless a report
has been furnished by the Attorney-General under section
26 to the effect that in his opinion there is sufficient evidence
to warrant the taking of further steps under this Act in respect
of the alleged offence.

(3) Parliament shall not be competent to take cognizance
of or punish any offence under this part in any case in which

an applicaion has been made to the Supreme Court under
section 23.

 

* Vide Clause 3 of the Parliament (Powers and Privileges) (Amendment)
Act, No. 27 of 1997.

I]

12


Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act

[Chapter 383

 

- *27A. Omitted.

28. The punishment which may be imposed by Parliament
for any offence under this Part shall be admonition at the Bar
of Parliament or removal from the precincts of Parliament :

Provided, however, that in the case of an offence committed
by 2a member of Parliament, Parliament may, in addition to
or in lieu of any punishment herein before specified, order
his suspension from the service of Parliament for any period
not exceeding one month :

Provided further that in the case of an offence committed
by a person who is not a member, Parliament may also order
that such person shall be prohibited from entering Parliament
or its precincts for a period not exceeding six months.

29. For the purpose of securing the attendance of any
person at the Bar of Parliament for admonition under section
28 of removing from the precincts of Parliament any person
whose removal has been ordered under that section, or whose
entry has been prohibited under that section, it shall be lawful
for the gentleman-Usher or the Serjeant- at- Arms as the case
may be or any other officer of Parliament or police officer, if
ordered so to do by the President or the Speaker, to arrest
such person without warrant at any place within the precincts
of Parliament and to use such reasonable force as may be
necessary for the purpose aforesaid.

30. The Standing Orders of Parliament nay contain
incidental or supplementary provision with respect to the
procedure to be followed in Parliament or by the President or
Speaker in cases of alleged offences under this Part, and may,
in particular, provide for the appointment of Committees of
Privilege, and their powers, functions and procedure.

 

* Vide Section 5 of the Parliament (Powers and Privileges) (Amendment)
Act, No. 27 of 1997.

13

Punishment which
Parliament may
impose.

Power of arrest for

carrying out
punishment.

Standing Orders
for procedure in
cases of breach of
privilege.


Chapter 383]

Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act

 

Saving of
prosecutions and
civil actions.

Limitation of
power of
punishment by
Parliament.

(§ 6, Law, No. 5
of 1978)

(§ 7, Act, No. 27
of 1997)

(§ 7, Law, No. §
of 1978)
(§ 8. Act, No. 27
of 1997)

31. (1) Where any act omission which is declared by this
act to constitute an offence under this Part also consititutes
an offence under any other written law, a person who is guilty
of such act or omission shall, notwithstanding anything in
any other law, be liable to be tried and punished for both
offences.

(2) Notwithstanding that any act or omission constitutes
an offence under this Part, nothing in this Act shall be
construed to prevent or restrict the institution or maintenance
against any person of any civil action or proceeding for
damages or for any other remedy which may be available in
respect of or by reason of such act or omission.

32. Nothing in this Act shall confer or be construed to
confer on Parliament any power to impose any punishment
on any person other than the power to impose for any offence
specified in Part B of the Schedule, any punishment authorized
by section 28 of this Act.

SCHEDULE
PART A

{OFFENCES TO BE PUNISHABLE ONLY BY THE SUPREME COURT)

I. Assaulting, insulting or wilfully obstructing any member coming to
or going from Parliament or on account of his conduct in Parliament or any
committee, or endeavouring to compel any member by force, insult or, menace
to declare himself in favour of or against any proposition or matter depending
or expected to be brought before Parliament or any committee.

2. Sending to a member any threatening letter or challenging a member
to fight on account of his conduct in Parliament or committee.

3. Tampering with, deterring, threatening, beguiling or in any way unduly
influencing any witness in regard to evidence to be given by him before
Parliament or any committee,

4.  Presenting to Parliament or to any committee any false, untrue,
fabricated or falsified document with intent to deceive Parliament or any
committee,

14


Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act

[Chapter 383

 

5. Wilfully publishing any false or perverted report of any debate or
proceedings of Parliament or committee or wilfully misrepresenting any
speech made by a member in Parliament or in committee,

6. Wilfully publishing any report of any debate or proceedings of
Parliament or a committee the publication of which has been prohibited by
Parliament or commitiee.

6A. Wilfully publishing any report of any debate or proceedings of
Parliament containing words or statements after the Speaker has ordered
such works or statement to be expunged from the official report of
Parliamentary Debates (HANSARD).

7. The publication of any defamatory statement reflecting on the
preceedings and the character of Parliament.

8. The publication of any defamatory statement concerning any member
in respect of his conduct as a member.

9. Theoffering to or acceptance by any member or officer of Parliament
of a bribe to influence him in his conduct as such member or officer, or the
offering to or acceptance by any member or officer of Parliament of any fee,
compensation, gift or reward for or in respect of the promotion of or opposition
to any Bill resolution, matter, rule or thing submitted to or intended to be
submitted to Parliament or any committee.

10. The printing of a copy of any Act or Ordinance or of report, paper
minutes or notes or proceedings of Parliament or any committee, which
purports to have been printed by the Govemment Printer or by or under the
authority of Parliament or any committee but which in fact has not been so
printed or the tendering in evidence of any such copy as aforesaid.

11. The abetment of any act or omission specified in any of the preceding
paragraphs.

PART B
OFFENCES TO BE PUNISHABLE BY PARLIAMENT OR THE SUPREME COURT

1. The wilful failure or refusal to obey any order or resolution of
Parliament under this Act, or any order of the President or Speaker or any
member which is duly made under this Act.

2. Willul disobedience to any order for attendance or for production of
papers, books, records or documents made by Parliament or any committee
duly authorized in that behalf unless such attendance or production be excused
as provided in section 13 and section 15 of the Act.

15

(§ 2. Act, No. 17
of 1980)


Chapter 383)

Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act

 

3. Refusing to be examined before or to answer any lawful and relevant
question put by Parliament or any such committee, unless such refusal be
excused as provided in section 13 and section 15.

4. Assaulting, insulting or wilfully obstructing any member in
Parliament in committee or-in the precincts of Parliament.

5. Assaulting or resisting or wilfully interfering with an officer of
Parliament in the Chamber or in committee or in the precincts of Parliament.

6. Creating or juining in any disturbance in the Chamber or in committee
or in the vicinity of Parliament while Parliament or any committee is sitting,
knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe that proceedings of
Parliament er committee are or are likely to be interrupted.

7. Disrespectful conduct in the precincts of Parliament,

8. Prevarication or other misconduct as a witness before Parliament or
in commiitee,

9. The publication of any proceedings in committee of Parliament
before they are reported to Parliament.

10. The abetment of any act or omission specified in any of the preceding
paragraphs.

16


